docs/src/main/asciidoc/_high-availability/EJB_Services.adoc, before:

[[EJB_Services]]
= EJB Services

This chapter explains how clustering of EJBs works in WildFly.

[[ejb-subsystem]]
== EJB Subsystem

[[ejb-timer]]
== EJB Timer

WildFly now supports clustered database backed timers. For details have
a look to the link:Developer_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EJB3_Clustered_Database_Timers[EJB3 reference section].

[[deploying-clustered-ejbs]]
=== Deploying clustered EJBs

Clustering support is available in the HA profiles of WildFly. In this
chapter we'll be using the standalone server for explaining the details.
However, the same applies to servers in a domain mode. Starting the
standalone server with HA capabilities enabled, involves starting it
with the standalone-ha.xml (or even standalone-full-ha.xml):

[source, sh]
----
./standalone.sh -server-config=standalone-ha.xml
----

This will start a single instance of the server with HA capabilities.
Deploying the EJBs to this instance _doesn't_ involve anything special
and is the same as explained in the link:Admin_Guide{outfilesuffix}#Application_deployment[application
deployment chapter].

Obviously, to be able to see the benefits of clustering, you'll need
more than one instance of the server. So let's start another server with
HA capabilities. That another instance of the server can either be on
the same machine or on some other machine. If it's on the same machine,
the two things you have to make sure is that you pass the port offset
for the second instance and also make sure that each of the server
instances have a unique `jboss.node.name` system property. You can do
that by passing the following two system properties to the startup
command:

[source, sh]
----
./standalone.sh -server-config=standalone-ha.xml -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=<offset of your choice> -Djboss.node.name=<unique node name>
----

Follow whichever approach you feel comfortable with for deploying the
EJB deployment to this instance too.

[IMPORTANT]

Deploying the application on just one node of a standalone instance of a
clustered server does *not* mean that it will be automatically deployed
to the other clustered instance. You will have to do deploy it
explicitly on the other standalone clustered instance too. Or you can
start the servers in domain mode so that the deployment can be deployed
to all the server within a server group. See the
link:Admin_Guide{outfilesuffix}[admin guide] for
more details on domain setup.

Now that you have deployed an application with clustered EJBs on both
the instances, the EJBs are now capable of making use of the clustering
features.

[[failover-for-clustered-ejbs]]
=== Failover for clustered EJBs

Clustered EJBs have failover capability. The state of the @Stateful
@Clustered EJBs is replicated across the cluster nodes so that if one of
the nodes in the cluster goes down, some other node will be able to take
over the invocations. Let's see how it's implemented in WildFly. In
the next few sections we'll see how it works for remote (standalone)
clients and for clients in another remote WildFly server instance.
Although, there isn't a difference in how it works in both these cases,
we'll still explain it separately so as to make sure there aren't any
unanswered questions.

[[remote-standalone-clients]]
==== Remote standalone clients

In this section we'll consider a remote standalone client (i.e. a client
which runs in a separate JVM and _isn't_ running within another WildFly
8 instance). Let's consider that we have 2 servers, server X and server
Y which we started earlier. Each of these servers has the clustered EJB
deployment. A standalone remote client can use either the
link:Developer_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EJB_invocations_from_a_remote_client_using_JNDI[JNDI approach] or native JBoss EJB client APIs to
communicate with the servers. The important thing to note is that when
you are invoking clustered EJB deployments, you do *not* have to list
all the servers within the cluster (which obviously wouldn't have been
feasible due the dynamic nature of cluster node additions within a
cluster).

The remote client just has to list only one of the servers with the
clustering capability. In this case, we can either list server X (in
`jboss-ejb-client.properties`) _or_ server Y. This server will act as the
starting point for cluster topology communication between the client and
the clustered nodes.

Note that you have to configure the _ejb_ cluster in the
jboss-ejb-client.properties configuration file, like so:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
remote.clusters=ejb
remote.cluster.ejb.connect.options.org.xnio.Options.SASL_POLICY_NOANONYMOUS=false
remote.cluster.ejb.connect.options.org.xnio.Options.SSL_ENABLED=false
----

[[cluster-topology-communication]]
==== Cluster topology communication

When a client connects to a server, the JBoss EJB client implementation
(internally) communicates with the server for cluster topology
information, if the server had clustering capability. In our example
above, let's assume we listed server X as the initial server to connect
to. When the client connects to server X, the server will send back an
(asynchronous) cluster topology message to the client. This topology
message consists of the cluster name(s) and the information of the nodes
that belong to the cluster. The node information includes the node
address and port number to connect to (whenever necessary). So in this
example, the server X will send back the cluster topology consisting of
the other server Y which belongs to the cluster.

In case of stateful (clustered) EJBs, a typical invocation flow involves
creating of a session for the stateful bean, which happens when you do a
JNDI lookup for that bean, and then invoking on the returned proxy. The
lookup for stateful bean, internally, triggers a (synchronous) session
creation request from the client to the server. In this case, the
session creation request goes to server X since that's the initial
connection that we have configured in our jboss-ejb-client.properties.
Since server X is clustered, it will return back a session id and along
with send back an _"affinity"_ of that session. In case of clustered
servers, the affinity equals to the name of the cluster to which the
stateful bean belongs on the server side. For non-clustered beans, the
affinity is just the node name on which the session was created. This
_affinity_ will later help the EJB client to route the invocations on
the proxy, appropriately to either a node within a cluster (for
clustered beans) or to a specific node (for non-clustered beans). While
this session creation request is going on, the server X will also send
back an asynchronous message which contains the cluster topology. The
JBoss EJB client implementation will take note of this topology
information and will later use it for connection creation to nodes
within the cluster and routing invocations to those nodes, whenever
necessary.

Now that we know how the cluster topology information is communicated
from the server to the client, let see how failover works. Let's
continue with the example of server X being our starting point and a
client application looking up a stateful bean and invoking on it. During
these invocations, the client side will have collected the cluster
topology information from the server. Now let's assume for some reason,
server X goes down and the client application subsequent invokes on the
proxy. The JBoss EJB client implementation, at this stage will be aware
of the affinity and in this case it's a cluster affinity. Because of the
cluster topology information it has, it knows that the cluster has two
nodes server X and server Y. When the invocation now arrives, it sees
that the server X is down. So it uses a selector to fetch a suitable
node from among the cluster nodes. The selector itself is configurable,
but we'll leave it from discussion for now. When the selector returns a
node from among the cluster, the JBoss EJB client implementation creates
a connection to that node (if not already created earlier) and creates a
EJB receiver out of it. Since in our example, the only other node in the
cluster is server Y, the selector will return that node and the JBoss
EJB client implementation will use it to create a EJB receiver out of it
and use that receiver to pass on the invocation on the proxy.
Effectively, the invocation has now failed over to a different node
within the cluster.

[[remote-clients-on-another-instance]]
==== Remote clients on another instance of WildFly

So far we discussed remote standalone clients which typically use either
the EJB client API or the jboss-ejb-client.properties based approach to
configure and communicate with the servers where the clustered beans are
deployed. Now let's consider the case where the client is an application
deployed another AS7 instance and it wants to invoke on a clustered
stateful bean which is deployed on another instance of WildFly. In
this example let's consider a case where we have 3 servers involved.
Server X and Server Y both belong to a cluster and have clustered EJB
deployed on them. Let's consider another server instance Server C (which
may or may _not_ have clustering capability) which acts as a client on
which there's a deployment which wants to invoke on the clustered beans
deployed on server X and Y and achieve failover.

The configurations required to achieve this are explained in
link:Developer_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EJB_invocations_from_a_remote_server_instance[this chapter]. As you can see the configurations are
done in a jboss-ejb-client.xml which points to a remote outbound
connection to the other server. This jboss-ejb-client.xml goes in the
deployment of server C (since that's our client). As explained earlier,
the client configuration need *not* point to all clustered nodes.
Instead it just has to point to one of them which will act as a start
point for communication. So in this case, we can create a remote
outbound connection on server C to server X and use server X as our
starting point for communication. Just like in the case of remote
standalone clients, when the application on server C (client) looks up a
stateful bean, a session creation request will be sent to server X which
will send back a session id and the cluster affinity for it.
Furthermore, server X asynchronously send back a message to server C
(client) containing the cluster topology. This topology information will
include the node information of server Y (since that belongs to the
cluster along with server X). Subsequent invocations on the proxy will
be routed appropriately to the nodes in the cluster. If server X goes
down, as explained earlier, a different node from the cluster will be
selected and the invocation will be forwarded to that node.

As can be seen both remote standalone client and remote clients on
another WildFly instance act similar in terms of failover.

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_high-availability/EJB_Services.adoc, after:

[[EJB_Services]]
= Jakarta Enterprise Beans Services

This chapter explains how clustering of EJBs works in WildFly.

[[ejb-subsystem]]
== Jakarta Enterprise Beans Subsystem

[[ejb-timer]]
== Jakarta Enterprise Beans Timer

WildFly now supports clustered database backed timers. For details have
a look to the link:Developer_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EJB3_Clustered_Database_Timers[EJB3 reference section].

[[deploying-clustered-ejbs]]
=== Deploying clustered EJBs

Clustering support is available in the HA profiles of WildFly. In this
chapter we'll be using the standalone server for explaining the details.
However, the same applies to servers in a domain mode. Starting the
standalone server with HA capabilities enabled, involves starting it
with the standalone-ha.xml (or even standalone-full-ha.xml):

[source, sh]
----
./standalone.sh -server-config=standalone-ha.xml
----

This will start a single instance of the server with HA capabilities.
Deploying the EJBs to this instance _doesn't_ involve anything special
and is the same as explained in the link:Admin_Guide{outfilesuffix}#Application_deployment[application
deployment chapter].

Obviously, to be able to see the benefits of clustering, you'll need
more than one instance of the server. So let's start another server with
HA capabilities. That another instance of the server can either be on
the same machine or on some other machine. If it's on the same machine,
the two things you have to make sure is that you pass the port offset
for the second instance and also make sure that each of the server
instances have a unique `jboss.node.name` system property. You can do
that by passing the following two system properties to the startup
command:

[source, sh]
----
./standalone.sh -server-config=standalone-ha.xml -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=<offset of your choice> -Djboss.node.name=<unique node name>
----

Follow whichever approach you feel comfortable with for deploying the
EJB deployment to this instance too.

[IMPORTANT]

Deploying the application on just one node of a standalone instance of a
clustered server does *not* mean that it will be automatically deployed
to the other clustered instance. You will have to do deploy it
explicitly on the other standalone clustered instance too. Or you can
start the servers in domain mode so that the deployment can be deployed
to all the server within a server group. See the
link:Admin_Guide{outfilesuffix}[admin guide] for
more details on domain setup.

Now that you have deployed an application with clustered EJBs on both
the instances, the EJBs are now capable of making use of the clustering
features.

[[failover-for-clustered-ejbs]]
=== Failover for clustered EJBs

Clustered EJBs have failover capability. The state of the @Stateful
@Clustered EJBs is replicated across the cluster nodes so that if one of
the nodes in the cluster goes down, some other node will be able to take
over the invocations. Let's see how it's implemented in WildFly. In
the next few sections we'll see how it works for remote (standalone)
clients and for clients in another remote WildFly server instance.
Although, there isn't a difference in how it works in both these cases,
we'll still explain it separately so as to make sure there aren't any
unanswered questions.

[[remote-standalone-clients]]
==== Remote standalone clients

In this section we'll consider a remote standalone client (i.e. a client
which runs in a separate JVM and _isn't_ running within another WildFly
8 instance). Let's consider that we have 2 servers, server X and server
Y which we started earlier. Each of these servers has the clustered EJB
deployment. A standalone remote client can use either the
link:Developer_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EJB_invocations_from_a_remote_client_using_JNDI[JNDI approach] or native JBoss Jakarta Enterprise Beans client APIs to
communicate with the servers. The important thing to note is that when
you are invoking clustered Jakarta Enterprise Beans deployments, you do *not* have to list
all the servers within the cluster (which obviously wouldn't have been
feasible due the dynamic nature of cluster node additions within a
cluster).

The remote client just has to list only one of the servers with the
clustering capability. In this case, we can either list server X (in
`jboss-ejb-client.properties`) _or_ server Y. This server will act as the
starting point for cluster topology communication between the client and
the clustered nodes.

Note that you have to configure the _ejb_ cluster in the
jboss-ejb-client.properties configuration file, like so:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
remote.clusters=ejb
remote.cluster.ejb.connect.options.org.xnio.Options.SASL_POLICY_NOANONYMOUS=false
remote.cluster.ejb.connect.options.org.xnio.Options.SSL_ENABLED=false
----

[[cluster-topology-communication]]
==== Cluster topology communication

When a client connects to a server, the JBoss Jakarta Enterprise Beans client implementation
(internally) communicates with the server for cluster topology
information, if the server had clustering capability. In our example
above, let's assume we listed server X as the initial server to connect
to. When the client connects to server X, the server will send back an
(asynchronous) cluster topology message to the client. This topology
message consists of the cluster name(s) and the information of the nodes
that belong to the cluster. The node information includes the node
address and port number to connect to (whenever necessary). So in this
example, the server X will send back the cluster topology consisting of
the other server Y which belongs to the cluster.

In case of stateful (clustered) EJBs, a typical invocation flow involves
creating of a session for the stateful bean, which happens when you do a
JNDI lookup for that bean, and then invoking on the returned proxy. The
lookup for stateful bean, internally, triggers a (synchronous) session
creation request from the client to the server. In this case, the
session creation request goes to server X since that's the initial
connection that we have configured in our jboss-ejb-client.properties.
Since server X is clustered, it will return back a session id and along
with send back an _"affinity"_ of that session. In case of clustered
servers, the affinity equals to the name of the cluster to which the
stateful bean belongs on the server side. For non-clustered beans, the
affinity is just the node name on which the session was created. This
_affinity_ will later help the Jakarta Enterprise Beans client to route the invocations on
the proxy, appropriately to either a node within a cluster (for
clustered beans) or to a specific node (for non-clustered beans). While
this session creation request is going on, the server X will also send
back an asynchronous message which contains the cluster topology. The
JBoss Jakarta Enterprise Beans client implementation will take note of this topology
information and will later use it for connection creation to nodes
within the cluster and routing invocations to those nodes, whenever
necessary.

Now that we know how the cluster topology information is communicated
from the server to the client, let see how failover works. Let's
continue with the example of server X being our starting point and a
client application looking up a stateful bean and invoking on it. During
these invocations, the client side will have collected the cluster
topology information from the server. Now let's assume for some reason,
server X goes down and the client application subsequent invokes on the
proxy. The JBoss Jakarta Enterprise Beans client implementation, at this stage will be aware
of the affinity and in this case it's a cluster affinity. Because of the
cluster topology information it has, it knows that the cluster has two
nodes server X and server Y. When the invocation now arrives, it sees
that the server X is down. So it uses a selector to fetch a suitable
node from among the cluster nodes. The selector itself is configurable,
but we'll leave it from discussion for now. When the selector returns a
node from among the cluster, the JBoss Jakarta Enterprise Beans client implementation creates
a connection to that node (if not already created earlier) and creates a
EJB receiver out of it. Since in our example, the only other node in the
cluster is server Y, the selector will return that node and the JBoss
EJB client implementation will use it to create a Jakarta Enterprise Beans receiver out of it
and use that receiver to pass on the invocation on the proxy.
Effectively, the invocation has now failed over to a different node
within the cluster.

[[remote-clients-on-another-instance]]
==== Remote clients on another instance of WildFly

So far we discussed remote standalone clients which typically use either
the Jakarta Enterprise Beans client API or the jboss-ejb-client.properties based approach to
configure and communicate with the servers where the clustered beans are
deployed. Now let's consider the case where the client is an application
deployed another AS7 instance and it wants to invoke on a clustered
stateful bean which is deployed on another instance of WildFly. In
this example let's consider a case where we have 3 servers involved.
Server X and Server Y both belong to a cluster and have clustered EJB
deployed on them. Let's consider another server instance Server C (which
may or may _not_ have clustering capability) which acts as a client on
which there's a deployment which wants to invoke on the clustered beans
deployed on server X and Y and achieve failover.

The configurations required to achieve this are explained in
link:Developer_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EJB_invocations_from_a_remote_server_instance[this chapter]. As you can see the configurations are
done in a jboss-ejb-client.xml which points to a remote outbound
connection to the other server. This jboss-ejb-client.xml goes in the
deployment of server C (since that's our client). As explained earlier,
the client configuration need *not* point to all clustered nodes.
Instead it just has to point to one of them which will act as a start
point for communication. So in this case, we can create a remote
outbound connection on server C to server X and use server X as our
starting point for communication. Just like in the case of remote
standalone clients, when the application on server C (client) looks up a
stateful bean, a session creation request will be sent to server X which
will send back a session id and the cluster affinity for it.
Furthermore, server X asynchronously send back a message to server C
(client) containing the cluster topology. This topology information will
include the node information of server Y (since that belongs to the
cluster along with server X). Subsequent invocations on the proxy will
be routed appropriately to the nodes in the cluster. If server X goes
down, as explained earlier, a different node from the cluster will be
selected and the invocation will be forwarded to that node.

As can be seen both remote standalone client and remote clients on
another WildFly instance act similar in terms of failover.
