docs/src/main/asciidoc/_high-availability/Introduction_To_High_Availability_Services.adoc, before:

[[Introduction_To_High_Availability_Services]]
= Introduction To High Availability Services

[[what-are-high-availability-services]]
== What are High Availability services?

WildFly's High Availability services are used to guarantee availability
of a deployed Java EE application.

Deploying critical applications on a single node suffers from two
potential problems:

* loss of application availability when the node hosting the application
crashes (single point of failure)
* loss of application availability in the form of extreme delays in
response time during high volumes of requests (overwhelmed server)

WildFly supports two features which ensure high availability of critical
Java EE applications:

* *fail-over:* allows a client interacting with a Java EE application to
have uninterrupted access to that application, even in the presence of
node failures
* *load balancing:* allows a client to have timely responses from the
application, even in the presence of high-volumes of requests

[IMPORTANT]

These two independent high availability services can very effectively
inter-operate when making use of mod_cluster for load balancing!

Taking advantage of WildFly's high availability services is easy, and
simply involves deploying WildFly on a cluster of nodes, making a small
number of application configuration changes, and then deploying the
application in the cluster.

We now take a brief look at what these services can guarantee.

[[high-availability-through-fail-over]]
== High Availability through fail-over

Fail-over allows a client interacting with a Java EE application to have
uninterrupted access to that application, even in the presence of node
failures. For example, consider a Java EE application which makes use of
the following features:

* session-oriented servlets to provide user interaction
* session-oriented EJBs to perform state-dependent business computation
* EJB entity beans to store critical data in a persistent store (e.g.
database)
* SSO login to the application

If the application makes use of WildFly's fail-over services, a client
interacting with an instance of that application will not be interrupted
even when the node on which that instance executes crashes. Behind the
scenes, WildFly makes sure that all of the user data that the
application make use of (HTTP session data, EJB SFSB sessions, EJB
entities and SSO credentials) are available at other nodes in the
cluster, so that when a failure occurs and the client is redirected to
that new node for continuation of processing (i.e. the client "fails
over" to the new node), the user's data is available and processing can
continue.

The Infinispan and JGroups subsystems are instrumental in providing
these data availability guarantees and will be discussed in detail later
in the guide.

[[high-availability-through-load-balancing]]
== High Availability through load balancing

Load balancing enables the application to respond to client requests in
a timely fashion, even when subjected to a high-volume of requests.
Using a load balancer as a front-end, each incoming HTTP request can be
directed to one node in the cluster for processing. In this way, the
cluster acts as a pool of processing nodes and the load is "balanced"
over the pool, achieving scalability and, as a consequence,
availability. Requests involving session-oriented servlets are directed
to the the same application instance in the pool for efficiency of
processing (sticky sessions). Using mod_cluster has the advantage that
changes in cluster topology (scaling the pool up or down, servers
crashing) are communicated back to the load balancer and used to update
in real time the load balancing activity and avoid requests being
directed to application instances which are no longer available.

The mod_cluster subsystem is instrumental in providing support for this
High Availability feature of WildFly and will be discussed in detail
later in this guide.

[[aims-of-the-guide]]
== Aims of the guide

This guide aims to:

* provide a description of the high-availability features available in
WildFly and the services they depend on
* show how the various high availability services can be configured for
particular application use cases
* identify default behavior for features relating to
high-availability/clustering

[[organization-of-the-guide]]
== Organization of the guide

As high availability features and their configuration depend on the
particular component they affect (e.g. HTTP sessions, EJB SFSB sessions,
Hibernate), we organize the discussion around those Java EE features. We
strive to make each section as self-contained as possible. Also, when
discussing a feature, we will introduce any WildFly subsystems upon
which the feature depends.

Commit message:

WFLY-12511 Update community documentation for Jakarta EE 8

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_high-availability/Introduction_To_High_Availability_Services.adoc, after:

[[Introduction_To_High_Availability_Services]]
= Introduction To High Availability Services

[[what-are-high-availability-services]]
== What are High Availability services?

WildFly's High Availability services are used to guarantee availability
of a deployed Jakarta EE application.

Deploying critical applications on a single node suffers from two
potential problems:

* loss of application availability when the node hosting the application
crashes (single point of failure)
* loss of application availability in the form of extreme delays in
response time during high volumes of requests (overwhelmed server)

WildFly supports two features which ensure high availability of critical
Jakarta EE applications:

* *fail-over:* allows a client interacting with a Jakarta EE application to
have uninterrupted access to that application, even in the presence of
node failures
* *load balancing:* allows a client to have timely responses from the
application, even in the presence of high-volumes of requests

[IMPORTANT]

These two independent high availability services can very effectively
inter-operate when making use of mod_cluster for load balancing!

Taking advantage of WildFly's high availability services is easy, and
simply involves deploying WildFly on a cluster of nodes, making a small
number of application configuration changes, and then deploying the
application in the cluster.

We now take a brief look at what these services can guarantee.

[[high-availability-through-fail-over]]
== High Availability through fail-over

Fail-over allows a client interacting with a Jakarta EE application to have
uninterrupted access to that application, even in the presence of node
failures. For example, consider a Jakarta EE application which makes use of
the following features:

* session-oriented servlets to provide user interaction
* session-oriented EJBs to perform state-dependent business computation
* EJB entity beans to store critical data in a persistent store (e.g.
database)
* SSO login to the application

If the application makes use of WildFly's fail-over services, a client
interacting with an instance of that application will not be interrupted
even when the node on which that instance executes crashes. Behind the
scenes, WildFly makes sure that all of the user data that the
application make use of (HTTP session data, EJB SFSB sessions, EJB
entities and SSO credentials) are available at other nodes in the
cluster, so that when a failure occurs and the client is redirected to
that new node for continuation of processing (i.e. the client "fails
over" to the new node), the user's data is available and processing can
continue.

The Infinispan and JGroups subsystems are instrumental in providing
these data availability guarantees and will be discussed in detail later
in the guide.

[[high-availability-through-load-balancing]]
== High Availability through load balancing

Load balancing enables the application to respond to client requests in
a timely fashion, even when subjected to a high-volume of requests.
Using a load balancer as a front-end, each incoming HTTP request can be
directed to one node in the cluster for processing. In this way, the
cluster acts as a pool of processing nodes and the load is "balanced"
over the pool, achieving scalability and, as a consequence,
availability. Requests involving session-oriented servlets are directed
to the the same application instance in the pool for efficiency of
processing (sticky sessions). Using mod_cluster has the advantage that
changes in cluster topology (scaling the pool up or down, servers
crashing) are communicated back to the load balancer and used to update
in real time the load balancing activity and avoid requests being
directed to application instances which are no longer available.

The mod_cluster subsystem is instrumental in providing support for this
High Availability feature of WildFly and will be discussed in detail
later in this guide.

[[aims-of-the-guide]]
== Aims of the guide

This guide aims to:

* provide a description of the high-availability features available in
WildFly and the services they depend on
* show how the various high availability services can be configured for
particular application use cases
* identify default behavior for features relating to
high-availability/clustering

[[organization-of-the-guide]]
== Organization of the guide

As high availability features and their configuration depend on the
particular component they affect (e.g. HTTP sessions, EJB SFSB sessions,
Hibernate), we organize the discussion around those Jakarta EE features. We
strive to make each section as self-contained as possible. Also, when
discussing a feature, we will introduce any WildFly subsystems upon
which the feature depends.
