docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/Deployment_Descriptors_used_In_WildFly.adoc, before:

[[Deployment_Descriptors_used_In_WildFly]]
= Deployment Descriptors used In WildFly

This page gives a list and a description of all the valid deployment
descriptors that a WildFly deployment can use. This document is a work
in progress.

[cols=",,,,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Descriptor |Location |Specification |Description |Info

|jboss-deployment-structure.xml |META-INF or WEB-INF of the top level
deployment |  |This file can be used to control class loading for the
deployment |Class Loading in WildFly

|beans.xml |WEB-INF or META-INF |CDI |The presence of this descriptor
(even if empty) activates CDI |Weld Reference Guide

|web.xml |WEB-INF |Servlet |Web deployment descriptor | 

|jboss-web.xml |WEB-INF |  |JBoss Web deployment descriptor. This can be
use to override settings from web.xml, and to set WildFly specific
options | 

|ejb-jar.xml |WEB-INF of a war, or META-INF of an EJB jar |EJB |The EJB
spec deployment descriptor |ejb-jar.xml schema

|jboss-ejb3.xml |WEB-INF of a war, or META-INF of an EJB jar |  |The
JBoss EJB deployment descriptor, this can be used to override settings
from ejb-jar.xml, and to set WildFly specific settings | 

|application.xml |META-INF of an EAR |Jakarta EE Platform Specification | 
|application.xml schema

|jboss-app.xml |META-INF of an EAR |  |JBoss application deployment
descriptor, can be used to override settings application.xml, and to set
WildFly specific settings | 

|persistence.xml |META-INF |JPA |JPA descriptor used for defining
persistence units |Hibernate Reference Guide

|jboss-ejb-client.xml |WEB-INF of a war, or META-INF of an EJB jar | 
|Remote EJB settings. This file is used to setup the EJB client context
for a deployment that is used for remote EJB invocations |EJB
invocations from a remote server instance

|jbosscmp-jdbc.xml |META-INF of an EJB jar |  |CMP deployment
descriptor. Used to map CMP entity beans to a database. The format is
largely unchanged from previous versions. | 

|ra.xml |META-INF of a rar archive |  |Spec deployment descriptor for
resource adaptor deployments |IronJacamar Reference Guide Schema

|ironjacamar.xml |META-INF of a rar archive |  |JBoss deployment
descriptor for resource adaptor deployments |IronJacamar Reference Guide

|*-jms.xml |META-INF or WEB-INF |  |JMS message destination deployment
descriptor, used to deploy message destinations with a deployment | 

|*-ds.xml |META-INF or WEB-INF |  |Datasource deployment descriptor, use
to bundle datasources with a deployment |DataSource Configuration

|application-client.xml |META-INF of an application client jar |Jakarta EE
Platform Specification |The spec deployment descriptor for application
client deployments |application-client.xml schema

|jboss-client.xml |META-INF of an application client jar |  |The WildFly
specific deployment descriptor for application client deployments | 

|jboss-webservices.xml |META-INF for EJB webservice deployments or
WEB-INF for POJO webservice deployments/EJB webservice endpoints bundled
in .war |  |The JBossWS 4.0.x specific deployment descriptor for
webservice endpoints | 
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/Deployment_Descriptors_used_In_WildFly.adoc, after:

[[Deployment_Descriptors_used_In_WildFly]]
= Deployment Descriptors used In WildFly

This page gives a list and a description of all the valid deployment
descriptors that a WildFly deployment can use. This document is a work
in progress.

[cols=",,,,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Descriptor |Location |Specification |Description |Info

|jboss-deployment-structure.xml |META-INF or WEB-INF of the top level
deployment |  |This file can be used to control class loading for the
deployment |Class Loading in WildFly

|beans.xml |WEB-INF or META-INF |CDI |The presence of this descriptor
(even if empty) activates CDI |Weld Reference Guide

|web.xml |WEB-INF |Servlet |Web deployment descriptor | 

|jboss-web.xml |WEB-INF |  |JBoss Web deployment descriptor. This can be
use to override settings from web.xml, and to set WildFly specific
options | 

|ejb-jar.xml |WEB-INF of a war, or META-INF of an Jakarta Enterprise Beans jar |EJB |The EJB
spec deployment descriptor |ejb-jar.xml schema

|jboss-ejb3.xml |WEB-INF of a war, or META-INF of an Jakarta Enterprise Beans jar |  |The
JBoss Jakarta Enterprise Beans deployment descriptor, this can be used to override settings
from ejb-jar.xml, and to set WildFly specific settings | 

|application.xml |META-INF of an EAR |Jakarta EE Platform Specification | 
|application.xml schema

|jboss-app.xml |META-INF of an EAR |  |JBoss application deployment
descriptor, can be used to override settings application.xml, and to set
WildFly specific settings | 

|persistence.xml |META-INF |JPA |JPA descriptor used for defining
persistence units |Hibernate Reference Guide

|jboss-ejb-client.xml |WEB-INF of a war, or META-INF of an Jakarta Enterprise Beans jar | 
|Remote Jakarta Enterprise Beans settings. This file is used to setup the Jakarta Enterprise Beans client context
for a deployment that is used for remote Jakarta Enterprise Beans invocations |EJB
invocations from a remote server instance

|jbosscmp-jdbc.xml |META-INF of an Jakarta Enterprise Beans jar |  |CMP deployment
descriptor. Used to map CMP entity beans to a database. The format is
largely unchanged from previous versions. | 

|ra.xml |META-INF of a rar archive |  |Spec deployment descriptor for
resource adaptor deployments |IronJacamar Reference Guide Schema

|ironjacamar.xml |META-INF of a rar archive |  |JBoss deployment
descriptor for resource adaptor deployments |IronJacamar Reference Guide

|*-jms.xml |META-INF or WEB-INF |  |JMS message destination deployment
descriptor, used to deploy message destinations with a deployment | 

|*-ds.xml |META-INF or WEB-INF |  |Datasource deployment descriptor, use
to bundle datasources with a deployment |DataSource Configuration

|application-client.xml |META-INF of an application client jar |Jakarta EE
Platform Specification |The spec deployment descriptor for application
client deployments |application-client.xml schema

|jboss-client.xml |META-INF of an application client jar |  |The WildFly
specific deployment descriptor for application client deployments | 

|jboss-webservices.xml |META-INF for Jakarta Enterprise Beans webservice deployments or
WEB-INF for POJO webservice deployments/EJB webservice endpoints bundled
in .war |  |The JBossWS 4.0.x specific deployment descriptor for
webservice endpoints | 
|=======================================================================
