docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/EE_Concurrency_Utilities.adoc, before:

[[EE_Concurrency_Utilities]]
= EE Concurrency Utilities

[abstract]

EE Concurrency Utilities (JSR 236) is a technology introduced with Java
EE 7, which adapts well known Java SE concurrency utilities to the Java
EE application environment specifics. The Java EE application server is
responsible for the creation (and shutdown) of every instance of the EE
Concurrency Utilities, and provide these to the applications, ready to
use.

The EE Concurrency Utilities support the propagation of the invocation
context, capturing the existent context in the application threads to
use in their own threads, the same way a logged-in user principal is
propagated when a servlet invokes an EJB asynchronously. The propagation
of the invocation context includes, by default, the class loading, JNDI
and security contexts.

WildFly creates a single default instance of each EE Concurrency Utility
type in all configurations within the distribution, as mandated by the
specification, but additional instances, perhaps customised to better
serve a specific usage, may be created through WildFly's EE Subsystem
Configuration. To learn how to configure EE Concurrency Utilities please
refer to link:Admin_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EE_Concurrency_Utilities_Configuration[EE Concurrency
Utilities Configuration]. Additionally, the EE subsystem configuration
also includes the configuration of which instance should be considered
the default instance mandated by the Java EE specification, and such
configuration is covered by
link:Default_EE_Bindings_Configuration.html[Default EE Bindings
Configuration].

[[context-service]]
== Context Service

The Context Service ( `javax.enterprise.concurrent.ContextService`) is a
brand new concurrency utility, which applications may use to build
contextual proxies from existing objects.

A contextual proxy is an object that sets a invocation context, captured
when created, whenever is invoked, before delegating the invocation to
the original object.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
  Runnable task = ...;
  Runnable contextualTask = contextService.createContextualProxy(task, Runnable.class);
  // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Context Service, which may be retrieved through `@Resource` injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ContextService contextService;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Context Service instance,
`@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI name used in
the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always inject the
default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute value, if the
`lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ContextService contextService = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultContextService");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Java EE specification, the default Context Service
instance's JNDI name is `java:comp/DefaultContextService`.

[[managed-thread-factory]]
== Managed Thread Factory

The Managed Thread Factory (
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedThreadFactory`) allows Java EE
applications to create Java threads. It is an extension of Java SE's
Thread Factory ( `java.util.concurrent.ThreadFactory`) adapted to the
Java EE platform specifics.

Managed Thread Factory instances are managed by the application server,
thus Java EE applications are forbidden to invoke any lifecycle related
method.

In case the Managed Thread Factory is configured to use a Context
Service, the application's thread context is captured when a thread
creation is requested, and such context is propagated to the thread's
Runnable execution.

Managed Thread Factory threads implement
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManageableThread`, which allows an
application to learn about termination status.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
  Runnable task = ...;
  Thread thread = managedThreadFactory.newThread(task);
  thread.start();
    // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Managed Thread Factory, which may be retrieved through `@Resource`
injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ManagedThreadFactory managedThreadFactory;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Managed Thread Factory instance,
`@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI name used in
the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always inject the
default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute value, in case
the `lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ManagedThreadFactory managedThreadFactory = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultManagedThreadFactory");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Java EE specification, the default Managed Thread
Factory instance's JNDI name is `java:comp/DefaultManagedThreadFactory`.

[[managed-executor-service]]
== Managed Executor Service

The Managed Executor Service (
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService`) allows Java EE
applications to submit tasks for asynchronous execution. It is an
extension of Java SE's Executor Service (
`java.util.concurrent.ExecutorService`) adapted to the Java EE platform
requirements.

Managed Executor Service instances are managed by the application
server, thus Java EE applications are forbidden to invoke any lifecycle
related method.

In case the Managed Executor Service is configured to use a Context
Service, the application's thread context is captured when the task is
submitted, and propagated to the executor thread responsible for the
task execution.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
    Runnable task = ...;
    Future future = managedExecutorService.submit(task);
    // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Managed Executor Service, which may be retrieved through `@Resource`
injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ManagedExecutorService managedExecutorService;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Managed Executor Service instance,
`@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI name used in
the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always inject the
default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute value, in case
the `lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ManagedExecutorService managedExecutorService = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultManagedExecutorService");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Java EE specification, the default Managed Executor
Service instance's JNDI name is
`java:comp/DefaultManagedExecutorService`.

[[managed-scheduled-executor-service]]
== Managed Scheduled Executor Service

The Managed Scheduled Executor Service (
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedScheduledExecutorService`) allows
Java EE applications to schedule tasks for asynchronous execution. It is
an extension of Java SE's Executor Service (
`java.util.concurrent.ScheduledExecutorService`) adapted to the Java EE
platform requirements.

Managed Scheduled Executor Service instances are managed by the
application server, thus Java EE applications are forbidden to invoke
any lifecycle related method.

In case the Managed Scheduled Executor Service is configured to use a
Context Service, the application's thread context is captured when the
task is scheduled, and propagated to the executor thread responsible for
the task execution.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
    Runnable task = ...;
    ScheduledFuture future = managedScheduledExecutorService.schedule(task, 60, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
    // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Managed Scheduled Executor Service, which may be retrieved through
`@Resource` injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ManagedScheduledExecutorService managedScheduledExecutorService;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Managed Scheduled Executor Service
instance, `@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI
name used in the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always
inject the default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute
value, in case the `lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ManagedScheduledExecutorService managedScheduledExecutorService = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultManagedScheduledExecutorService");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Java EE specification, the default Managed Scheduled
Executor Service instance's JNDI name is
`java:comp/DefaultManagedScheduledExecutorService`.

Commit message:

WFLY-12511 Update community documentation for Jakarta EE 8

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/EE_Concurrency_Utilities.adoc, after:

[[EE_Concurrency_Utilities]]
= EE Concurrency Utilities

[abstract]

EE Concurrency Utilities (JSR 236) is a technology introduced with Java
EE 7, which adapts well known Java SE concurrency utilities to the Java
EE application environment specifics. The Jakarta EE application server is
responsible for the creation (and shutdown) of every instance of the EE
Concurrency Utilities, and provide these to the applications, ready to
use.

The EE Concurrency Utilities support the propagation of the invocation
context, capturing the existent context in the application threads to
use in their own threads, the same way a logged-in user principal is
propagated when a servlet invokes an EJB asynchronously. The propagation
of the invocation context includes, by default, the class loading, JNDI
and security contexts.

WildFly creates a single default instance of each EE Concurrency Utility
type in all configurations within the distribution, as mandated by the
specification, but additional instances, perhaps customised to better
serve a specific usage, may be created through WildFly's EE Subsystem
Configuration. To learn how to configure EE Concurrency Utilities please
refer to link:Admin_Guide{outfilesuffix}#EE_Concurrency_Utilities_Configuration[EE Concurrency
Utilities Configuration]. Additionally, the EE subsystem configuration
also includes the configuration of which instance should be considered
the default instance mandated by the Jakarta EE specification, and such
configuration is covered by
link:Default_EE_Bindings_Configuration.html[Default EE Bindings
Configuration].

[[context-service]]
== Context Service

The Context Service ( `javax.enterprise.concurrent.ContextService`) is a
brand new concurrency utility, which applications may use to build
contextual proxies from existing objects.

A contextual proxy is an object that sets a invocation context, captured
when created, whenever is invoked, before delegating the invocation to
the original object.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
  Runnable task = ...;
  Runnable contextualTask = contextService.createContextualProxy(task, Runnable.class);
  // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Context Service, which may be retrieved through `@Resource` injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ContextService contextService;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Context Service instance,
`@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI name used in
the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always inject the
default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute value, if the
`lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ContextService contextService = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultContextService");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Jakarta EE specification, the default Context Service
instance's JNDI name is `java:comp/DefaultContextService`.

[[managed-thread-factory]]
== Managed Thread Factory

The Managed Thread Factory (
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedThreadFactory`) allows Java EE
applications to create Java threads. It is an extension of Java SE's
Thread Factory ( `java.util.concurrent.ThreadFactory`) adapted to the
Jakarta EE platform specifics.

Managed Thread Factory instances are managed by the application server,
thus Jakarta EE applications are forbidden to invoke any lifecycle related
method.

In case the Managed Thread Factory is configured to use a Context
Service, the application's thread context is captured when a thread
creation is requested, and such context is propagated to the thread's
Runnable execution.

Managed Thread Factory threads implement
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManageableThread`, which allows an
application to learn about termination status.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
  Runnable task = ...;
  Thread thread = managedThreadFactory.newThread(task);
  thread.start();
    // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Managed Thread Factory, which may be retrieved through `@Resource`
injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ManagedThreadFactory managedThreadFactory;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Managed Thread Factory instance,
`@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI name used in
the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always inject the
default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute value, in case
the `lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ManagedThreadFactory managedThreadFactory = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultManagedThreadFactory");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Jakarta EE specification, the default Managed Thread
Factory instance's JNDI name is `java:comp/DefaultManagedThreadFactory`.

[[managed-executor-service]]
== Managed Executor Service

The Managed Executor Service (
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService`) allows Java EE
applications to submit tasks for asynchronous execution. It is an
extension of Java SE's Executor Service (
`java.util.concurrent.ExecutorService`) adapted to the Jakarta EE platform
requirements.

Managed Executor Service instances are managed by the application
server, thus Jakarta EE applications are forbidden to invoke any lifecycle
related method.

In case the Managed Executor Service is configured to use a Context
Service, the application's thread context is captured when the task is
submitted, and propagated to the executor thread responsible for the
task execution.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
    Runnable task = ...;
    Future future = managedExecutorService.submit(task);
    // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Managed Executor Service, which may be retrieved through `@Resource`
injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ManagedExecutorService managedExecutorService;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Managed Executor Service instance,
`@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI name used in
the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always inject the
default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute value, in case
the `lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ManagedExecutorService managedExecutorService = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultManagedExecutorService");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Jakarta EE specification, the default Managed Executor
Service instance's JNDI name is
`java:comp/DefaultManagedExecutorService`.

[[managed-scheduled-executor-service]]
== Managed Scheduled Executor Service

The Managed Scheduled Executor Service (
`javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedScheduledExecutorService`) allows
Jakarta EE applications to schedule tasks for asynchronous execution. It is
an extension of Java SE's Executor Service (
`java.util.concurrent.ScheduledExecutorService`) adapted to the Java EE
platform requirements.

Managed Scheduled Executor Service instances are managed by the
application server, thus Jakarta EE applications are forbidden to invoke
any lifecycle related method.

In case the Managed Scheduled Executor Service is configured to use a
Context Service, the application's thread context is captured when the
task is scheduled, and propagated to the executor thread responsible for
the task execution.

Usage example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
public void onGet(...) {
    Runnable task = ...;
    ScheduledFuture future = managedScheduledExecutorService.schedule(task, 60, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
    // ...
}
----

WildFly default configurations creates a single default instance of a
Managed Scheduled Executor Service, which may be retrieved through
`@Resource` injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Resource
private ManagedScheduledExecutorService managedScheduledExecutorService;
----

[NOTE]

To retrieve instead a non default Managed Scheduled Executor Service
instance, `@Resource`'s `lookup` attribute needs to specify the JNDI
name used in the wanted instance configuration. WildFly will always
inject the default instance, no matter what's the `name` attribute
value, in case the `lookup` attribute is not defined.

Applications may alternatively use instead the standard JNDI API:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
ManagedScheduledExecutorService managedScheduledExecutorService = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/DefaultManagedScheduledExecutorService");
----

[NOTE]

As mandated by the Jakarta EE specification, the default Managed Scheduled
Executor Service instance's JNDI name is
`java:comp/DefaultManagedScheduledExecutorService`.
