docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/EJB3_Reference_Guide.adoc, before:

[[EJB3_Reference_Guide]]
= EJB 3 Reference Guide

This chapter details the extensions that are available when developing
Enterprise Java Beans ^tm^ on WildFly {wildflyVersion}.

Currently there is no support for configuring the extensions using an
implementation specific descriptor file.

[[resource-adapter-for-message-driven-beans]]
== Resource Adapter for Message Driven Beans

Each Message Driven Bean must be connected to a resource adapter.

[[specification-of-resource-adapter-using-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Resource Adapter using Metadata Annotations

The `ResourceAdapter` annotation is used to specify the resource adapter
with which the MDB should connect.

The `value` of the annotation is the name of the deployment unit
containing the resource adapter. For example `jms-ra.rar`.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@MessageDriven(messageListenerInterface = PostmanPat.class)
@ResourceAdapter("ejb3-rar.rar")
----

[[run-as-principal]]
== Run-as Principal

Whenever a run-as role is specified for a given method invocation the
default anonymous principal is used as the caller principal. This
principal can be overridden by specifying a run-as principal.

[[specification-of-run-as-principal-using-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Run-as Principal using Metadata Annotations

The `RunAsPrincipal` annotation is used to specify the run-as principal
to use for a given method invocation.

The `value` of the annotation specifies the name of the principal to
use. The actual type of the principal is undefined and should not be
relied upon.

Using this annotation without specifying a run-as role is considered an
error.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@RunAs("admin")
@RunAsPrincipal("MyBean")
----

[[security-domain-ejb3-ref]]
== Security Domain

Each Enterprise Java Bean ^tm^ can be associated with a security domain.
Only when an EJB is associated with a security domain will
authentication and authorization be enforced.

[[specification-of-security-domain-using-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Security Domain using Metadata Annotations

The `SecurityDomain` annotation is used to specify the security domain
to associate with the EJB.

The `value` of the annotation is the name of the security domain to be
used.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@SecurityDomain("other")
----

[[transaction-timeout]]
== Transaction Timeout

For any newly started transaction a transaction timeout can be specified
in seconds.

When a transaction timeout of `0` is used, then the actual transaction
timeout will default to the domain configured default. +
_TODO: add link to tx subsystem_

Although this is only applicable when using transaction attribute
`REQUIRED` or `REQUIRES_NEW` the application server will not detect
invalid setups.

New Transactions

[IMPORTANT]

Take care that even when transaction attribute `REQUIRED` is specified,
the timeout will only be applicable if a *new* transaction is started.

[[specification-of-transaction-timeout-with-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Transaction Timeout with Metadata Annotations

The `TransactionTimeout` annotation is used to specify the transaction
timeout for a given method.

The `value` of the annotation is the timeout used in the given `unit`
granularity. It must be a positive integer or 0. Whenever 0 is specified
the default domain configured timeout is used.

The `unit` specifies the granularity of the `value`. The actual value
used is converted to seconds. Specifying a granularity lower than
`SECONDS` is considered an error, even when the computed value will
result in an even amount of seconds.

For example:@TransactionTimeout(value = 10, unit = TimeUnit.SECONDS)

[[specification-of-transaction-timeout-in-the-deployment-descriptor]]
=== Specification of Transaction Timeout in the Deployment Descriptor

The `trans-timeout` element is used to define the transaction timeout
for business, home, component, and message-listener interface methods;
no-interface view methods; web service endpoint methods; and timeout
callback methods.

The `trans-timeout` element resides in the `urn:trans-timeout` namespace
and is part of the standard `container-transaction` element as defined
in the jboss namespace.

For the rules when a `container-transaction` is applicable please refer
to EJB 3.1 FR 13.3.7.2.1.

[[example-of-trans-timeout]]
==== Example of trans-timeout

jboss-ejb3.xml

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss:ejb-jar xmlns:jboss="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns:tx="urn:trans-timeout"
               xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
               xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/jboss-ejb3-2_0.xsd
http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/ejb-jar_3_1.xsd
urn:trans-timeout http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/trans-timeout-1_0.xsd"
               version="3.1"
               impl-version="2.0">
    <assembly-descriptor>
        <container-transaction>
            <method>
                <ejb-name>BeanWithTimeoutValue</ejb-name>
                <method-name>*</method-name>
                <method-intf>Local</method-intf>
            </method>
            <tx:trans-timeout>
                <tx:timeout>10</tx:timeout>
                <tx:unit>Seconds</tx:unit>
            </tx:trans-timeout>
        </container-transaction>
    </assembly-descriptor>
</jboss:ejb-jar>
----

[[timer-service]]
== Timer service

The service is responsible to call the registered timeout methods of the
different session beans.

[NOTE]

A persistent timer will be identified by the name of the EAR, the name
of the sub-deployment JAR and the Bean's name. +
If one of those names are changed (e.g. EAR name contain a version) the
timer entry became orphaned and the timer event will not longer be
fired.

[[single-event-timer]]
=== Single event timer

The timer is will be started once at the specified time.

In case of a server restart the timeout method of a persistent timer
will only be called directly if the specified time is elapsed. +
If the timer is not persistent (since EJB3.1 see 18.2.3) it will be not
longer available if JBoss is restarted or the application is redeployed.

[[recurring-timer]]
=== Recurring timer

The timer will be started at the specified first occurrence and after
that point at each time if the interval is elapsed. +
If the timer will be started during the last execution is not finished
the execution will be suppressed with a warning to avoid concurrent
execution.

In case of server downtime for a persistent timer, the timeout method
will be called only once if one, or more than one, interval is
elapsed. +
If the timer is not persistent (since EJB3.1 see 18.2.3) it will not
longer be active after the server is restarted or the application is
redeployed.

[[calendar-timer]]
=== Calendar timer

The timer will be started if the schedule expression match. It will be
automatically deactivated and removed if there will be no next
expiration possible, i.e. If you set a specific year.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Schedule( ... dayOfMonth="1", month="1", year="2012") +
// start once at 01-01-2012 00:00:00
----

[[programmatic-calendar-timer]]
==== Programmatic calendar timer

If the timer is persistent it will be fetched at server start and the
missed timeouts are called concurrent. +
If a persistent timer contains an end date it will be executed once
nevertheless how many times the execution was missed. Also a retry will
be suppressed if the timeout method throw an Exception. +
In case of such expired timer access to the given Timer object might
throw a NoMoreTimeoutExcption or NoSuchObjectException.

If the timer is non persistent it will not longer be active after the
server is restarted or the application is redeployed.

*TODO*: clarify whether this should happen concurrently/blocked or even
fired only once like a recurring timer!

[[annotated-calendar-timer]]
==== Annotated calendar timer

If the timer is non persistent it will not activated for missed events
during the server is down. In case of server start the timer is
scheduled based on the @Schedule annotation.

If the timer is persistent (default if not deactivated by annotation)
all missed events are fetched at server start and the annotated timeout
method is called concurrent.

*TODO*: clarify whether this should happen concurrently/blocked or even
fired only once like a recurring timer!

:leveloffset: +1

include::ejb3/Container_interceptors.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB3_Clustered_Database_Timers.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB_IIOP_Guide.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB_over_HTTP.adoc[]

include::ejb3/jboss-ejb3.xml_Reference.adoc[]

include::ejb3/Message_Driven_Beans_Controlled_Delivery.adoc[]

include::ejb3/Securing_EJBs.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB_Client_Interceptors.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/EJB3_Reference_Guide.adoc, after:

[[EJB3_Reference_Guide]]
= Jakarta Enterprise Beans 3 Reference Guide

This chapter details the extensions that are available when developing
Enterprise Java Beans ^tm^ on WildFly {wildflyVersion}.

Currently there is no support for configuring the extensions using an
implementation specific descriptor file.

[[resource-adapter-for-message-driven-beans]]
== Resource Adapter for Message Driven Beans

Each Message Driven Bean must be connected to a resource adapter.

[[specification-of-resource-adapter-using-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Resource Adapter using Metadata Annotations

The `ResourceAdapter` annotation is used to specify the resource adapter
with which the MDB should connect.

The `value` of the annotation is the name of the deployment unit
containing the resource adapter. For example `jms-ra.rar`.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@MessageDriven(messageListenerInterface = PostmanPat.class)
@ResourceAdapter("ejb3-rar.rar")
----

[[run-as-principal]]
== Run-as Principal

Whenever a run-as role is specified for a given method invocation the
default anonymous principal is used as the caller principal. This
principal can be overridden by specifying a run-as principal.

[[specification-of-run-as-principal-using-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Run-as Principal using Metadata Annotations

The `RunAsPrincipal` annotation is used to specify the run-as principal
to use for a given method invocation.

The `value` of the annotation specifies the name of the principal to
use. The actual type of the principal is undefined and should not be
relied upon.

Using this annotation without specifying a run-as role is considered an
error.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@RunAs("admin")
@RunAsPrincipal("MyBean")
----

[[security-domain-ejb3-ref]]
== Security Domain

Each Enterprise Java Bean ^tm^ can be associated with a security domain.
Only when an Jakarta Enterprise Beans is associated with a security domain will
authentication and authorization be enforced.

[[specification-of-security-domain-using-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Security Domain using Metadata Annotations

The `SecurityDomain` annotation is used to specify the security domain
to associate with the EJB.

The `value` of the annotation is the name of the security domain to be
used.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@SecurityDomain("other")
----

[[transaction-timeout]]
== Transaction Timeout

For any newly started transaction a transaction timeout can be specified
in seconds.

When a transaction timeout of `0` is used, then the actual transaction
timeout will default to the domain configured default. +
_TODO: add link to tx subsystem_

Although this is only applicable when using transaction attribute
`REQUIRED` or `REQUIRES_NEW` the application server will not detect
invalid setups.

New Transactions

[IMPORTANT]

Take care that even when transaction attribute `REQUIRED` is specified,
the timeout will only be applicable if a *new* transaction is started.

[[specification-of-transaction-timeout-with-metadata-annotations]]
=== Specification of Transaction Timeout with Metadata Annotations

The `TransactionTimeout` annotation is used to specify the transaction
timeout for a given method.

The `value` of the annotation is the timeout used in the given `unit`
granularity. It must be a positive integer or 0. Whenever 0 is specified
the default domain configured timeout is used.

The `unit` specifies the granularity of the `value`. The actual value
used is converted to seconds. Specifying a granularity lower than
`SECONDS` is considered an error, even when the computed value will
result in an even amount of seconds.

For example:@TransactionTimeout(value = 10, unit = TimeUnit.SECONDS)

[[specification-of-transaction-timeout-in-the-deployment-descriptor]]
=== Specification of Transaction Timeout in the Deployment Descriptor

The `trans-timeout` element is used to define the transaction timeout
for business, home, component, and message-listener interface methods;
no-interface view methods; web service endpoint methods; and timeout
callback methods.

The `trans-timeout` element resides in the `urn:trans-timeout` namespace
and is part of the standard `container-transaction` element as defined
in the jboss namespace.

For the rules when a `container-transaction` is applicable please refer
to Jakarta Enterprise Beans 3.1 FR 13.3.7.2.1.

[[example-of-trans-timeout]]
==== Example of trans-timeout

jboss-ejb3.xml

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss:ejb-jar xmlns:jboss="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns:tx="urn:trans-timeout"
               xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
               xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/jboss-ejb3-2_0.xsd
http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/ejb-jar_3_1.xsd
urn:trans-timeout http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/trans-timeout-1_0.xsd"
               version="3.1"
               impl-version="2.0">
    <assembly-descriptor>
        <container-transaction>
            <method>
                <ejb-name>BeanWithTimeoutValue</ejb-name>
                <method-name>*</method-name>
                <method-intf>Local</method-intf>
            </method>
            <tx:trans-timeout>
                <tx:timeout>10</tx:timeout>
                <tx:unit>Seconds</tx:unit>
            </tx:trans-timeout>
        </container-transaction>
    </assembly-descriptor>
</jboss:ejb-jar>
----

[[timer-service]]
== Timer service

The service is responsible to call the registered timeout methods of the
different session beans.

[NOTE]

A persistent timer will be identified by the name of the EAR, the name
of the sub-deployment JAR and the Bean's name. +
If one of those names are changed (e.g. EAR name contain a version) the
timer entry became orphaned and the timer event will not longer be
fired.

[[single-event-timer]]
=== Single event timer

The timer is will be started once at the specified time.

In case of a server restart the timeout method of a persistent timer
will only be called directly if the specified time is elapsed. +
If the timer is not persistent (since EJB3.1 see 18.2.3) it will be not
longer available if JBoss is restarted or the application is redeployed.

[[recurring-timer]]
=== Recurring timer

The timer will be started at the specified first occurrence and after
that point at each time if the interval is elapsed. +
If the timer will be started during the last execution is not finished
the execution will be suppressed with a warning to avoid concurrent
execution.

In case of server downtime for a persistent timer, the timeout method
will be called only once if one, or more than one, interval is
elapsed. +
If the timer is not persistent (since EJB3.1 see 18.2.3) it will not
longer be active after the server is restarted or the application is
redeployed.

[[calendar-timer]]
=== Calendar timer

The timer will be started if the schedule expression match. It will be
automatically deactivated and removed if there will be no next
expiration possible, i.e. If you set a specific year.

For example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Schedule( ... dayOfMonth="1", month="1", year="2012") +
// start once at 01-01-2012 00:00:00
----

[[programmatic-calendar-timer]]
==== Programmatic calendar timer

If the timer is persistent it will be fetched at server start and the
missed timeouts are called concurrent. +
If a persistent timer contains an end date it will be executed once
nevertheless how many times the execution was missed. Also a retry will
be suppressed if the timeout method throw an Exception. +
In case of such expired timer access to the given Timer object might
throw a NoMoreTimeoutExcption or NoSuchObjectException.

If the timer is non persistent it will not longer be active after the
server is restarted or the application is redeployed.

*TODO*: clarify whether this should happen concurrently/blocked or even
fired only once like a recurring timer!

[[annotated-calendar-timer]]
==== Annotated calendar timer

If the timer is non persistent it will not activated for missed events
during the server is down. In case of server start the timer is
scheduled based on the @Schedule annotation.

If the timer is persistent (default if not deactivated by annotation)
all missed events are fetched at server start and the annotated timeout
method is called concurrent.

*TODO*: clarify whether this should happen concurrently/blocked or even
fired only once like a recurring timer!

:leveloffset: +1

include::ejb3/Container_interceptors.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB3_Clustered_Database_Timers.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB_IIOP_Guide.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB_over_HTTP.adoc[]

include::ejb3/jboss-ejb3.xml_Reference.adoc[]

include::ejb3/Message_Driven_Beans_Controlled_Delivery.adoc[]

include::ejb3/Securing_EJBs.adoc[]

include::ejb3/EJB_Client_Interceptors.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1
