docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/JAX_WS_Advanced_User_Guide.adoc, before:

[[JAX_WS_Advanced_User_Guide]]
= Advanced User Guide

[[logging]]
== Logging

Logging of inbound and outbound messages is a common need. Different
approaches are available for achieving that:

[[jax-ws-handler-approach]]
=== JAX-WS Handler approach

A portable way of performing logging is writing a simple JAX-WS handler
dumping the messages that are passed in it; the handler can be added to
the desired client/endpoints (programmatically / using `@HandlerChain`
JAX-WS annotation).

The <<Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations,predefined client and endpoint configuration>>
mechanism allows user to add the logging handler to any client/endpoint
or to some of them only (in which case the `@EndpointConfig` annotation
/ JBossWS API is required though).

[[apache-cxf-approach]]
=== Apache CXF approach

Apache CXF also comes with logging interceptors that can be easily used
to log messages to the console or configured client/server log files.
Those interceptors can be added to client, endpoint and buses in
multiple ways:

[[system-property]]
==== System property

Setting the `org.apache.cxf.logging.enabled` system property to true
causes the logging interceptors to be added to any `Bus` instance being
created on the JVM.

[IMPORTANT]

On WildFly, the system property is easily set by adding what follows to
the standalone / domain server configuration just after the extensions
section:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<system-properties>
  <property name="org.apache.cxf.logging.enabled" value="true"/>
</system-properties>
----

[[manual-interceptor-addition-and-logging-feature]]
==== Manual interceptor addition and logging feature

Logging interceptors can be selectively added to endpoints using the
Apache CXF annotations `@org.apache.cxf.interceptor.InInterceptors` and
`@org.apache.cxf.interceptor.OutInterceptors`. The same is achieved on
client side by programmatically adding new instances of the logging
interceptors to the client or the bus.

Alternatively, Apache CXF also comes with a
`org.apache.cxf.feature.LoggingFeature` that can be used on clients and
endpoints (either annotating them with
`@org.apache.cxf.feature.Features` or directly with
`@org.apache.cxf.annotations.Logging`).

Please refer to the
http://cxf.apache.org/docs/debugging-and-logging.html#DebuggingandLogging-LoggingMessages[Apache
CXF documentation] for more details.

[[ws--support]]
== WS-* support

JBossWS includes most of the WS-* specification functionalities through
the integration with Apache CXF. In particular, the whole WS-Security
Policy framework is fully supported, enabling full contract driven
configuration of complex features like WS-Security.

In details information available further down in this documentation
book.

[[address-rewrite]]
== Address rewrite

JBossWS allows users to configure the _soap:address_ attribute in the
wsdl contract of deployed services.

[[server-configuration-options]]
=== Server configuration options

The configuration options are part of the
https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/WFLY8/Web+services+configuration[webservices
subsystem section] of the application server domain model.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:webservices:1.1" xmlns:javaee="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
  xmlns:jaxwsconfig="urn:jboss:jbossws-jaxws-config:4.0">
  <wsdl-host>localhost</wsdl-host>
  <modify-wsdl-address>true</modify-wsdl-address>
<!--
  <wsdl-port>8080</wsdl-port>
  <wsdl-secure-port>8443</wsdl-secure-port>
-->
</subsystem>
----

If the content of _<soap:address>_ in the wsdl is a valid URL, JBossWS
will not rewrite it unless _modify-wsdl-address_ is true. If the content
of _<soap:address>_ is not a valid URL instead, JBossWS will always
rewrite it using the attribute values given below. Please note that the
variable _$\{jboss.bind.address}_ can be used to set the address which
the application is bound to at each startup.

The wsdl-secure-port and wsdl-port attributes are used to explicitly
define the ports to be used for rewriting the SOAP address. If these
attributes are not set, the ports will be identified by querying the
list of installed connectors. If multiple connectors are found the port
of the first connector is used.

[[dynamic-rewrite]]
=== Dynamic rewrite

When the application server is bound to multiple addresses or
non-trivial real-world network architectures cause request for different
external addresses to hit the same endpoint, a static rewrite of the
soap:address may not be enough. JBossWS allows for both the soap:address
in the wsdl and the wsdl address in the console to be rewritten with the
host use in the client request. This way, users always get the right
wsdl address assuming they're connecting to an instance having the
endpoint they're looking for. To trigger this behaviour, the
_jbossws.undefined.host_ value has to be specified for the _wsdl-host_
element.

....
<wsdl-host>jbossws.undefined.host</wsdl-host>
<modify-wsdl-address>true</modify-wsdl-address>
....

Of course, when a confidential transport address is required, the
addresses are always rewritten using https protocol and the port
currently configured for the https/ssl connector.

[[configuration-through-deployment-descriptor]]
== Configuration through deployment descriptor

The `jboss-webservices.xml` deployment descriptor can be used to provide
additional configuration for a given deployment. The expected location
of it is:

* `META-INF/jboss-webservices.xml` for EJB webservice deployments
* `WEB-INF/jboss-webservices.xml` for POJO webservice deployments and
EJB webservice endpoints bundled in `war` archives

The structure of file is the following (schemas are available
http://anonsvn.jboss.org/repos/jbossws/spi/trunk/src/main/resources/schema/[here]):

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <context-root/>?
  <config-name/>?
  <config-file/>?
  <property>*
    <name/>
    <value/>
  </property>
  <port-component>*
    <ejb-name/>
    <port-component-name/>
    <port-component-uri/>?
    <auth-method/>?
    <transport-guarantee/>?
    <secure-wsdl-access/>?
  </port-component>
  <webservice-description>*
    <webservice-description-name/>
    <wsdl-publish-location/>?
  </webservice-description>
</webservices>
----

[[context-root-element]]
=== context-root element

Element `<context-root>` can be used to customize context root of
webservices deployment.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <context-root>foo</context-root>
</webservices>
----

[[config-name-and-config-file-elements]]
=== config-name and config-file elements

Elements `<config-name>` and `<config-file>` can be used to associate
any endpoint provided in the deployment with a given
<<Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations,endpoint configuration>>. Endpoint configuration are
either specified in the referenced config file or in the WildFly domain
model (webservices subsystem). For further details on the endpoint
configurations and their management in the domain model, please see the
related
https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/WFLY8/Web+services+configuration[documentation].

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <config-name>Standard WSSecurity Endpoint</config-name>
  <config-file>META-INF/custom.xml</config-file>
</webservices>
----

[[property-element]]
=== property element

`<property>` elements can be used to setup simple property values to
configure the ws stack behavior. Allowed property names and values are
mentioned in the guide under related topics.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<property>
  <name>prop.name</name>
  <value>prop.value</value>
</property>
----

[[port-component-element]]
=== port-component element

Element `<port-component>` can be used to customize EJB endpoint target
URI or to configure security related properties.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <port-component>
    <ejb-name>TestService</ejb-name>
    <port-component-name>TestServicePort</port-component-name>
    <port-component-uri>/*</port-component-uri>
    <auth-method>BASIC</auth-method>
    <transport-guarantee>NONE</transport-guarantee>
    <secure-wsdl-access>true</secure-wsdl-access>
  </port-component>
</webservices>
----

[[webservice-description-element]]
=== webservice-description element

Element `<webservice-description>` can be used to customize (override)
webservice WSDL publish location.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <webservice-description>
    <webservice-description-name>TestService</webservice-description-name>
    <wsdl-publish-location>file:///bar/foo.wsdl</wsdl-publish-location>
  </webservice-description>
</webservices>
----

[[schema-validation-of-soap-messages]]
== Schema validation of SOAP messages

Apache CXF has a feature for validating incoming and outgoing SOAP
messages on both client and server side. The validation is performed
against the relevant schema in the endpoint wsdl contract (server side)
or the wsdl contract used for building up the service proxy (client
side).

Schema validation can be turned on programmatically on client side

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
((BindingProvider)proxy).getRequestContext().put("schema-validation-enabled", true);
----

or using the `@org.apache.cxf.annotations.SchemaValidation` annotation
on server side

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
import javax.jws.WebService;
import org.apache.cxf.annotations.SchemaValidation;
 
@WebService(...)
@SchemaValidation
public class ValidatingHelloImpl implements Hello {
   ...
}
----

Alternatively, any endpoint and client running in-container can be
associated to a JBossWS <<Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations,predefined configuration>>
having the `schema-validation-enabled` property set to `true` in the
referenced config file.

Finally, JBossWS also allows for server-wide (default) setup of schema
validation by using the _Standard-Endpoint-Config_ and
_Standard-Client-Config_ special configurations (which apply to any
client / endpoint unless a different configuration is specified for
them)

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:webservices:1.2">
    ...
    <endpoint-config name="Standard-Endpoint-Config">
        <property name="schema-validation-enabled" value="true"/>
    </endpoint-config>
    ...
    <client-config name="Standard-Client-Config">
        <property name="schema-validation-enabled" value="true"/>
    </client-config>
</subsystem>
----

[[jaxb-introductions]]
== JAXB Introductions

As Kohsuke Kawaguchi wrote on
http://weblogs.java.net/blog/kohsuke/archive/2007/07/binding_3rd_par.html[his
blog], one common complaint from the JAXB users is the lack of support
for binding 3rd party classes. The scenario is this: you are trying to
annotate your classes with JAXB annotations to make it XML bindable, but
some of the classes are coming from libraries and JDK, and thus you
cannot put necessary JAXB annotations on it.

To solve this JAXB has been designed to provide hooks for programmatic
introduction of annotations to the runtime.

This is currently leveraged by the JBoss JAXB Introductions project,
using which users can define annotations in XML and make JAXB see those
as if those were in the class files (perhaps coming from 3rd party
libraries).

Take a look at the http://community.jboss.org/docs/DOC-10075[JAXB
Introductions page] on the wiki and at the examples in the sources.

[[wsdl-system-properties-expansion]]
== WSDL system properties expansion

See <<Published_WSDL_customization,Published WSDL customization>>

:leveloffset: +1

include::jax-ws/Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/Authentication.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/Apache_CXF_integration.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Addressing.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Security.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Trust_and_STS.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Reliable_Messaging.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/SOAP_over_JMS.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/HTTP_Proxy.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Discovery.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Policy.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/Published_WSDL_customization.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/JAX_WS_Advanced_User_Guide.adoc, after:

[[JAX_WS_Advanced_User_Guide]]
= Advanced User Guide

[[logging]]
== Logging

Logging of inbound and outbound messages is a common need. Different
approaches are available for achieving that:

[[jax-ws-handler-approach]]
=== JAX-WS Handler approach

A portable way of performing logging is writing a simple JAX-WS handler
dumping the messages that are passed in it; the handler can be added to
the desired client/endpoints (programmatically / using `@HandlerChain`
JAX-WS annotation).

The <<Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations,predefined client and endpoint configuration>>
mechanism allows user to add the logging handler to any client/endpoint
or to some of them only (in which case the `@EndpointConfig` annotation
/ JBossWS API is required though).

[[apache-cxf-approach]]
=== Apache CXF approach

Apache CXF also comes with logging interceptors that can be easily used
to log messages to the console or configured client/server log files.
Those interceptors can be added to client, endpoint and buses in
multiple ways:

[[system-property]]
==== System property

Setting the `org.apache.cxf.logging.enabled` system property to true
causes the logging interceptors to be added to any `Bus` instance being
created on the JVM.

[IMPORTANT]

On WildFly, the system property is easily set by adding what follows to
the standalone / domain server configuration just after the extensions
section:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<system-properties>
  <property name="org.apache.cxf.logging.enabled" value="true"/>
</system-properties>
----

[[manual-interceptor-addition-and-logging-feature]]
==== Manual interceptor addition and logging feature

Logging interceptors can be selectively added to endpoints using the
Apache CXF annotations `@org.apache.cxf.interceptor.InInterceptors` and
`@org.apache.cxf.interceptor.OutInterceptors`. The same is achieved on
client side by programmatically adding new instances of the logging
interceptors to the client or the bus.

Alternatively, Apache CXF also comes with a
`org.apache.cxf.feature.LoggingFeature` that can be used on clients and
endpoints (either annotating them with
`@org.apache.cxf.feature.Features` or directly with
`@org.apache.cxf.annotations.Logging`).

Please refer to the
http://cxf.apache.org/docs/debugging-and-logging.html#DebuggingandLogging-LoggingMessages[Apache
CXF documentation] for more details.

[[ws--support]]
== WS-* support

JBossWS includes most of the WS-* specification functionalities through
the integration with Apache CXF. In particular, the whole WS-Security
Policy framework is fully supported, enabling full contract driven
configuration of complex features like WS-Security.

In details information available further down in this documentation
book.

[[address-rewrite]]
== Address rewrite

JBossWS allows users to configure the _soap:address_ attribute in the
wsdl contract of deployed services.

[[server-configuration-options]]
=== Server configuration options

The configuration options are part of the
https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/WFLY8/Web+services+configuration[webservices
subsystem section] of the application server domain model.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:webservices:1.1" xmlns:javaee="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
  xmlns:jaxwsconfig="urn:jboss:jbossws-jaxws-config:4.0">
  <wsdl-host>localhost</wsdl-host>
  <modify-wsdl-address>true</modify-wsdl-address>
<!--
  <wsdl-port>8080</wsdl-port>
  <wsdl-secure-port>8443</wsdl-secure-port>
-->
</subsystem>
----

If the content of _<soap:address>_ in the wsdl is a valid URL, JBossWS
will not rewrite it unless _modify-wsdl-address_ is true. If the content
of _<soap:address>_ is not a valid URL instead, JBossWS will always
rewrite it using the attribute values given below. Please note that the
variable _$\{jboss.bind.address}_ can be used to set the address which
the application is bound to at each startup.

The wsdl-secure-port and wsdl-port attributes are used to explicitly
define the ports to be used for rewriting the SOAP address. If these
attributes are not set, the ports will be identified by querying the
list of installed connectors. If multiple connectors are found the port
of the first connector is used.

[[dynamic-rewrite]]
=== Dynamic rewrite

When the application server is bound to multiple addresses or
non-trivial real-world network architectures cause request for different
external addresses to hit the same endpoint, a static rewrite of the
soap:address may not be enough. JBossWS allows for both the soap:address
in the wsdl and the wsdl address in the console to be rewritten with the
host use in the client request. This way, users always get the right
wsdl address assuming they're connecting to an instance having the
endpoint they're looking for. To trigger this behaviour, the
_jbossws.undefined.host_ value has to be specified for the _wsdl-host_
element.

....
<wsdl-host>jbossws.undefined.host</wsdl-host>
<modify-wsdl-address>true</modify-wsdl-address>
....

Of course, when a confidential transport address is required, the
addresses are always rewritten using https protocol and the port
currently configured for the https/ssl connector.

[[configuration-through-deployment-descriptor]]
== Configuration through deployment descriptor

The `jboss-webservices.xml` deployment descriptor can be used to provide
additional configuration for a given deployment. The expected location
of it is:

* `META-INF/jboss-webservices.xml` for Jakarta Enterprise Beans webservice deployments
* `WEB-INF/jboss-webservices.xml` for POJO webservice deployments and
EJB webservice endpoints bundled in `war` archives

The structure of file is the following (schemas are available
http://anonsvn.jboss.org/repos/jbossws/spi/trunk/src/main/resources/schema/[here]):

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <context-root/>?
  <config-name/>?
  <config-file/>?
  <property>*
    <name/>
    <value/>
  </property>
  <port-component>*
    <ejb-name/>
    <port-component-name/>
    <port-component-uri/>?
    <auth-method/>?
    <transport-guarantee/>?
    <secure-wsdl-access/>?
  </port-component>
  <webservice-description>*
    <webservice-description-name/>
    <wsdl-publish-location/>?
  </webservice-description>
</webservices>
----

[[context-root-element]]
=== context-root element

Element `<context-root>` can be used to customize context root of
webservices deployment.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <context-root>foo</context-root>
</webservices>
----

[[config-name-and-config-file-elements]]
=== config-name and config-file elements

Elements `<config-name>` and `<config-file>` can be used to associate
any endpoint provided in the deployment with a given
<<Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations,endpoint configuration>>. Endpoint configuration are
either specified in the referenced config file or in the WildFly domain
model (webservices subsystem). For further details on the endpoint
configurations and their management in the domain model, please see the
related
https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/WFLY8/Web+services+configuration[documentation].

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <config-name>Standard WSSecurity Endpoint</config-name>
  <config-file>META-INF/custom.xml</config-file>
</webservices>
----

[[property-element]]
=== property element

`<property>` elements can be used to setup simple property values to
configure the ws stack behavior. Allowed property names and values are
mentioned in the guide under related topics.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<property>
  <name>prop.name</name>
  <value>prop.value</value>
</property>
----

[[port-component-element]]
=== port-component element

Element `<port-component>` can be used to customize Jakarta Enterprise Beans endpoint target
URI or to configure security related properties.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <port-component>
    <ejb-name>TestService</ejb-name>
    <port-component-name>TestServicePort</port-component-name>
    <port-component-uri>/*</port-component-uri>
    <auth-method>BASIC</auth-method>
    <transport-guarantee>NONE</transport-guarantee>
    <secure-wsdl-access>true</secure-wsdl-access>
  </port-component>
</webservices>
----

[[webservice-description-element]]
=== webservice-description element

Element `<webservice-description>` can be used to customize (override)
webservice WSDL publish location.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<webservices>
  <webservice-description>
    <webservice-description-name>TestService</webservice-description-name>
    <wsdl-publish-location>file:///bar/foo.wsdl</wsdl-publish-location>
  </webservice-description>
</webservices>
----

[[schema-validation-of-soap-messages]]
== Schema validation of SOAP messages

Apache CXF has a feature for validating incoming and outgoing SOAP
messages on both client and server side. The validation is performed
against the relevant schema in the endpoint wsdl contract (server side)
or the wsdl contract used for building up the service proxy (client
side).

Schema validation can be turned on programmatically on client side

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
((BindingProvider)proxy).getRequestContext().put("schema-validation-enabled", true);
----

or using the `@org.apache.cxf.annotations.SchemaValidation` annotation
on server side

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
import javax.jws.WebService;
import org.apache.cxf.annotations.SchemaValidation;
 
@WebService(...)
@SchemaValidation
public class ValidatingHelloImpl implements Hello {
   ...
}
----

Alternatively, any endpoint and client running in-container can be
associated to a JBossWS <<Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations,predefined configuration>>
having the `schema-validation-enabled` property set to `true` in the
referenced config file.

Finally, JBossWS also allows for server-wide (default) setup of schema
validation by using the _Standard-Endpoint-Config_ and
_Standard-Client-Config_ special configurations (which apply to any
client / endpoint unless a different configuration is specified for
them)

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:webservices:1.2">
    ...
    <endpoint-config name="Standard-Endpoint-Config">
        <property name="schema-validation-enabled" value="true"/>
    </endpoint-config>
    ...
    <client-config name="Standard-Client-Config">
        <property name="schema-validation-enabled" value="true"/>
    </client-config>
</subsystem>
----

[[jaxb-introductions]]
== JAXB Introductions

As Kohsuke Kawaguchi wrote on
http://weblogs.java.net/blog/kohsuke/archive/2007/07/binding_3rd_par.html[his
blog], one common complaint from the JAXB users is the lack of support
for binding 3rd party classes. The scenario is this: you are trying to
annotate your classes with JAXB annotations to make it XML bindable, but
some of the classes are coming from libraries and JDK, and thus you
cannot put necessary JAXB annotations on it.

To solve this JAXB has been designed to provide hooks for programmatic
introduction of annotations to the runtime.

This is currently leveraged by the JBoss JAXB Introductions project,
using which users can define annotations in XML and make JAXB see those
as if those were in the class files (perhaps coming from 3rd party
libraries).

Take a look at the http://community.jboss.org/docs/DOC-10075[JAXB
Introductions page] on the wiki and at the examples in the sources.

[[wsdl-system-properties-expansion]]
== WSDL system properties expansion

See <<Published_WSDL_customization,Published WSDL customization>>

:leveloffset: +1

include::jax-ws/Predefined_client_and_endpoint_configurations.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/Authentication.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/Apache_CXF_integration.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Addressing.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Security.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Trust_and_STS.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Reliable_Messaging.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/SOAP_over_JMS.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/HTTP_Proxy.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Discovery.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/WS-Policy.adoc[]

include::jax-ws/Published_WSDL_customization.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1
