docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/JNDI_Remote_Reference.adoc, before:

[[JNDI_Remote_Reference]]
= Remote JNDI Access

WildFly supports two different types of remote JNDI.

[[http-remoting]]
== http-remoting:

The `http-remoting:` protocol implementation is provided by JBoss Remote
Naming project, and uses http upgrade to lookup items from the servers
local JNDI. To use it, you must have the appropriate jars on the class
path, if you are maven user can be done simply by adding the following
to your `pom.xml` dependencies:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.wildfly</groupId>
  <artifactId>wildfly-ejb-client-bom</artifactId>
  <version>11.0.0.Final</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
----

If you are not using maven a shaded jar that contains all required
classes +
can be found in the `bin/client` directory of WildFly's distribution.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
final Properties env = new Properties();
env.put(Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY, "org.jboss.naming.remote.client.InitialContextFactory");
env.put(Context.PROVIDER_URL, "http-remoting://localhost:8080");
// the property below is required ONLY if there is no ejb client configuration loaded (such as a
// jboss-ejb-client.properties in the class path) and the context will be used to lookup EJBs
env.put("jboss.naming.client.ejb.context", true);
InitialContext remoteContext = new InitialContext(env);
RemoteCalculator ejb = (RemoteCalculator) remoteContext.lookup("wildfly-http-remoting-ejb/CalculatorBean!"
                + RemoteCalculator.class.getName());
----

[IMPORTANT]

The http-remoting client assumes JNDI names in remote lookups are
relative to java:jboss/exported namespace, a lookup of an absolute JNDI
name will fail.

[[ejb]]
== ejb:

The ejb: namespace implementation is provided by the jboss-ejb-client
library, and allows the lookup of EJB's using their application name,
module name, ejb name and interface type. To use it, you must have the
appropriate jars on the class path, if you are maven user can be done
simply by adding the following to your `pom.xml` dependencies:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.wildfly</groupId>
  <artifactId>wildfly-ejb-client-bom</artifactId>
  <version>11.0.0.Final</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
----

If you are not using maven a shaded jar that contains all required
classes +
can be found in the `bin/client` directory of WildFly's distribution.

This is a client side JNDI implementation. Instead of looking up an EJB
on the server the lookup name contains enough information for the client
side library to generate a proxy with the EJB information. When you
invoke a method on this proxy it will use the current EJB client context
to perform the invocation. If the current context does not have a
connection to a server with the specified EJB deployed then an error
will occur. Using this protocol it is possible to look up EJB's that do
not actually exist, and no error will be thrown until the proxy is
actually used. The exception to this is stateful session beans, which
need to connect to a server when they are created in order to create the
session bean instance on the server.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
final Properties env = new Properties();
env.put(Context.URL_PKG_PREFIXES, "org.jboss.ejb.client.naming");
InitialContext remoteContext = new InitialContext(env);
MyRemoteInterface myRemote = (MyRemoteInterface) remoteContext.lookup("ejb:myapp/myejbjar/MyEjbName\!com.test.MyRemoteInterface");
MyStatefulRemoteInterface myStatefulRemote = (MyStatefulRemoteInterface) remoteContext.lookup("ejb:myapp/myejbjar/MyStatefulName\!comp.test.MyStatefulRemoteInterface?stateful");
----

The first example is a lookup of a singleton, stateless or EJB 2.x home
interface. This lookup will not hit the server, instead a proxy will be
generated for the remote interface specified in the name. The second
example is for a stateful session bean, in this case the JNDI lookup
will hit the server, in order to tell the server to create the SFSB
session.

[IMPORTANT]

For more details on how the server connections are configured, including
the *required* jboss ejb client setup, please see
<<EJB_invocations_from_a_remote_client_using_JNDI,EJB invocations from a remote client using JNDI>>.

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/JNDI_Remote_Reference.adoc, after:

[[JNDI_Remote_Reference]]
= Remote JNDI Access

WildFly supports two different types of remote JNDI.

[[http-remoting]]
== http-remoting:

The `http-remoting:` protocol implementation is provided by JBoss Remote
Naming project, and uses http upgrade to lookup items from the servers
local JNDI. To use it, you must have the appropriate jars on the class
path, if you are maven user can be done simply by adding the following
to your `pom.xml` dependencies:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.wildfly</groupId>
  <artifactId>wildfly-ejb-client-bom</artifactId>
  <version>11.0.0.Final</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
----

If you are not using maven a shaded jar that contains all required
classes +
can be found in the `bin/client` directory of WildFly's distribution.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
final Properties env = new Properties();
env.put(Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY, "org.jboss.naming.remote.client.InitialContextFactory");
env.put(Context.PROVIDER_URL, "http-remoting://localhost:8080");
// the property below is required ONLY if there is no ejb client configuration loaded (such as a
// jboss-ejb-client.properties in the class path) and the context will be used to lookup EJBs
env.put("jboss.naming.client.ejb.context", true);
InitialContext remoteContext = new InitialContext(env);
RemoteCalculator ejb = (RemoteCalculator) remoteContext.lookup("wildfly-http-remoting-ejb/CalculatorBean!"
                + RemoteCalculator.class.getName());
----

[IMPORTANT]

The http-remoting client assumes JNDI names in remote lookups are
relative to java:jboss/exported namespace, a lookup of an absolute JNDI
name will fail.

[[ejb]]
== ejb:

The ejb: namespace implementation is provided by the jboss-ejb-client
library, and allows the lookup of EJB's using their application name,
module name, ejb name and interface type. To use it, you must have the
appropriate jars on the class path, if you are maven user can be done
simply by adding the following to your `pom.xml` dependencies:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.wildfly</groupId>
  <artifactId>wildfly-ejb-client-bom</artifactId>
  <version>11.0.0.Final</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
----

If you are not using maven a shaded jar that contains all required
classes +
can be found in the `bin/client` directory of WildFly's distribution.

This is a client side JNDI implementation. Instead of looking up an EJB
on the server the lookup name contains enough information for the client
side library to generate a proxy with the Jakarta Enterprise Beans information. When you
invoke a method on this proxy it will use the current Jakarta Enterprise Beans client context
to perform the invocation. If the current context does not have a
connection to a server with the specified Jakarta Enterprise Beans deployed then an error
will occur. Using this protocol it is possible to look up EJB's that do
not actually exist, and no error will be thrown until the proxy is
actually used. The exception to this is stateful session beans, which
need to connect to a server when they are created in order to create the
session bean instance on the server.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
final Properties env = new Properties();
env.put(Context.URL_PKG_PREFIXES, "org.jboss.ejb.client.naming");
InitialContext remoteContext = new InitialContext(env);
MyRemoteInterface myRemote = (MyRemoteInterface) remoteContext.lookup("ejb:myapp/myejbjar/MyEjbName\!com.test.MyRemoteInterface");
MyStatefulRemoteInterface myStatefulRemote = (MyStatefulRemoteInterface) remoteContext.lookup("ejb:myapp/myejbjar/MyStatefulName\!comp.test.MyStatefulRemoteInterface?stateful");
----

The first example is a lookup of a singleton, stateless or Jakarta Enterprise Beans 2.x home
interface. This lookup will not hit the server, instead a proxy will be
generated for the remote interface specified in the name. The second
example is for a stateful session bean, in this case the JNDI lookup
will hit the server, in order to tell the server to create the SFSB
session.

[IMPORTANT]

For more details on how the server connections are configured, including
the *required* jboss ejb client setup, please see
<<EJB_invocations_from_a_remote_client_using_JNDI,EJB invocations from a remote client using JNDI>>.
