docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/JNDI_Local_Reference.adoc, before:

[[JNDI_Local_Reference]]
= Local JNDI

The Java EE platform specification defines the following JNDI contexts:

* `java:comp` - The namespace is scoped to the current component (i.e.
EJB)
* `java:module` - Scoped to the current module
* `java:app` - Scoped to the current application
* `java:global` - Scoped to the application server

In addition to the standard namespaces, WildFly also provides the
following two global namespaces:

* java:jboss
* java:/

[IMPORTANT]

Only entries within the `java:jboss/exported` context are accessible
over remote JNDI.

[IMPORTANT]

For web deployments `java:comp` is aliased to `java:module`, so EJB's
deployed in a war do not have their own comp namespace.

[[binding-entries-to-jndi]]
== Binding entries to JNDI

There are several methods that can be used to bind entries into JNDI in
WildFly.

[[using-a-deployment-descriptor]]
=== Using a deployment descriptor

For Java EE applications the recommended way is to use a
<<Deployment_Descriptors_used_In_WildFly,deployment descriptor>> to create the binding. For
example the following `web.xml` binds the string `"Hello World"` to
`java:global/mystring` and the string `"Hello Module"` to
`java:comp/env/hello` (any non absolute JNDI name is relative to
`java:comp/env` context).

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<web-app xmlns="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/web-app_3_1.xsd"
         version="3.1">
    <env-entry>
        <env-entry-name>java:global/mystring</env-entry-name>
        <env-entry-type>java.lang.String</env-entry-type>
        <env-entry-value>Hello World</env-entry-value>
    </env-entry>
    <env-entry>
        <env-entry-name>hello</env-entry-name>
        <env-entry-type>java.lang.String</env-entry-type>
        <env-entry-value>Hello Module</env-entry-value>
    </env-entry>
</web-app>
----

For more details, see the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=342[Java EE
Platform Specification].

[[programatically]]
=== Programatically

[[java-ee-applications]]
==== Java EE Applications

Standard Java EE applications may use the standard JNDI API, included
with Java SE, to bind entries in the global namespaces (the standard
`java:comp`, `java:module` and `java:app` namespaces are read-only, as
mandated by the Java EE Platform Specification).

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  InitialContext initialContext = new InitialContext();
  initialContext.bind("java:global/a", 100);
----

[IMPORTANT]

There is no need to unbind entries created programatically, since
WildFly tracks which bindings belong to a deployment, and the bindings
are automatically removed when the deployment is undeployed.

[[wildfly-modules-and-extensions]]
==== WildFly Modules and Extensions

With respect to code in WildFly Modules/Extensions, which is executed
out of a Java EE application context, using the standard JNDI API may
result in a UnsupportedOperationException if the target namespace uses a
WritableServiceBasedNamingStore. To work around that, the bind()
invocation needs to be wrapped using WildFly proprietary APIs:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  InitialContext initialContext = new InitialContext();
  WritableServiceBasedNamingStore.pushOwner(serviceTarget);
  try {
    initialContext.bind("java:global/a", 100);
  } finally {
    WritableServiceBasedNamingStore.popOwner();
  }
----

[IMPORTANT]

The ServiceTarget removes the bind when uninstalled, thus using one out
of the module/extension domain usage should be avoided, unless entries
are removed using unbind().

[[naming-subsystem-configuration]]
=== Naming Subsystem Configuration

It is also possible to bind to one of the three global namespaces using
configuration in the naming subsystem. This can be done by either
editing the `standalone.xml/domain.xml` file directly, or through the
management API.

Four different types of bindings are supported:

* Simple - A primitive or java.net.URL entry (default is
`java.lang.String`).
* Object Factory - This allows to to specify the
`javax.naming.spi.ObjectFactory` that is used to create the looked up
value.
* External Context - An external context to federate, such as an LDAP
Directory Service
* Lookup - The allows to create JNDI aliases, when this entry is looked
up it will lookup the target and return the result.

An example standalone.xml might look like:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:naming:2.0" >
  <bindings>
    <simple name="java:global/a" value="100" type="int" />
    <simple name="java:global/jbossDocs" value="https://docs.jboss.org" type="java.net.URL" />
    <object-factory name="java:global/b" module="com.acme" class="org.acme.MyObjectFactory" />
    <external-context name="java:global/federation/ldap/example" class="javax.naming.directory.InitialDirContext" cache="true">
      <environment>
        <property name="java.naming.factory.initial" value="com.sun.jndi.ldap.LdapCtxFactory" />
        <property name="java.naming.provider.url" value="ldap://ldap.example.com:389" />
        <property name="java.naming.security.authentication" value="simple" />
        <property name="java.naming.security.principal" value="uid=admin,ou=system" />
        <property name="java.naming.security.credentials" value="secret" />
      </environment>
    </external-context>
    <lookup name="java:global/c" lookup="java:global/b" />
 </bindings>
</subsystem>
----

The CLI may also be used to bind an entry. As an example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=naming/binding=java\:global\/mybinding:add(binding-type=simple, type=long, value=1000)
----

[IMPORTANT]

WildFly's Administrator Guide includes a section describing in detail
the Naming subsystem configuration.

[[retrieving-entries-from-jndi]]
== Retrieving entries from JNDI

[[resource-injection]]
=== Resource Injection

For Java EE applications the recommended way to lookup a JNDI entry is
to use `@Resource` injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  @Resource(lookup = "java:global/mystring")
  private String myString;
 
  @Resource(name = "hello")
  private String hello;
 
  @Resource
  ManagedExecutorService executor;
----

Note that `@Resource` is more than a JNDI lookup, it also binds an entry
in the component's JNDI environment. The new bind JNDI name is defined
by `@Resource`'s `name` attribute, which value, if unspecified, is the
Java type concatenated with `/` and the field's name, for instance
`java.lang.String/myString`. More, similar to when using deployment
descriptors to bind JNDI entries. unless the name is an absolute JNDI
name, it is considered relative to `java:comp/env`. For instance, with
respect to the field named `myString` above, the `@Resource`'s `lookup`
attribute instructs WildFly to lookup the value in
`java:global/mystring`, bind it in
`java:comp/env/java.lang.String/myString`, and then inject such value
into the field.

With respect to the field named `hello`, there is no `lookup` attribute
value defined, so the responsibility to provide the entry's value is
delegated to the deployment descriptor. Considering that the deployment
descriptor was the `web.xml` previously shown, which defines an
environment entry with same `hello` name, then WildFly inject the valued
defined in the deployment descriptor into the field.

The `executor` field has no attributes specified, so the bind's name
would default to
`java:comp/env/javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService/executor`,
but there is no such entry in the deployment descriptor, and when that
happens it's up to WildFly to provide a default value or null, depending
on the field's Java type. In this particular case WildFly would inject
the default instance of a managed executor service, the value in
`java:comp/DefaultManagedExecutorService`, as mandated by the EE
Concurrency Utilities 1.0 Specification (JSR 236).

[[standard-java-se-jndi-api]]
=== Standard Java SE JNDI API

Java EE applications may use, without any additional configuration
needed, the standard JNDI API to lookup an entry from JNDI:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  String myString = (String) new InitialContext().lookup("java:global/mystring");
----

or simply

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  String myString = InitialContext.doLookup("java:global/mystring");
----

Commit message:

WFLY-12511 Update community documentation for Jakarta EE 8

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/JNDI_Local_Reference.adoc, after:

[[JNDI_Local_Reference]]
= Local JNDI

The Jakarta EE platform specification defines the following JNDI contexts:

* `java:comp` - The namespace is scoped to the current component (i.e.
EJB)
* `java:module` - Scoped to the current module
* `java:app` - Scoped to the current application
* `java:global` - Scoped to the application server

In addition to the standard namespaces, WildFly also provides the
following two global namespaces:

* java:jboss
* java:/

[IMPORTANT]

Only entries within the `java:jboss/exported` context are accessible
over remote JNDI.

[IMPORTANT]

For web deployments `java:comp` is aliased to `java:module`, so EJB's
deployed in a war do not have their own comp namespace.

[[binding-entries-to-jndi]]
== Binding entries to JNDI

There are several methods that can be used to bind entries into JNDI in
WildFly.

[[using-a-deployment-descriptor]]
=== Using a deployment descriptor

For Jakarta EE applications the recommended way is to use a
<<Deployment_Descriptors_used_In_WildFly,deployment descriptor>> to create the binding. For
example the following `web.xml` binds the string `"Hello World"` to
`java:global/mystring` and the string `"Hello Module"` to
`java:comp/env/hello` (any non absolute JNDI name is relative to
`java:comp/env` context).

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<web-app xmlns="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/web-app_3_1.xsd"
         version="3.1">
    <env-entry>
        <env-entry-name>java:global/mystring</env-entry-name>
        <env-entry-type>java.lang.String</env-entry-type>
        <env-entry-value>Hello World</env-entry-value>
    </env-entry>
    <env-entry>
        <env-entry-name>hello</env-entry-name>
        <env-entry-type>java.lang.String</env-entry-type>
        <env-entry-value>Hello Module</env-entry-value>
    </env-entry>
</web-app>
----

For more details, see the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=342[Java EE
Platform Specification].

[[programatically]]
=== Programatically

[[java-ee-applications]]
==== Jakarta EE Applications

Standard Jakarta EE applications may use the standard JNDI API, included
with Java SE, to bind entries in the global namespaces (the standard
`java:comp`, `java:module` and `java:app` namespaces are read-only, as
mandated by the Jakarta EE Platform Specification).

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  InitialContext initialContext = new InitialContext();
  initialContext.bind("java:global/a", 100);
----

[IMPORTANT]

There is no need to unbind entries created programatically, since
WildFly tracks which bindings belong to a deployment, and the bindings
are automatically removed when the deployment is undeployed.

[[wildfly-modules-and-extensions]]
==== WildFly Modules and Extensions

With respect to code in WildFly Modules/Extensions, which is executed
out of a Jakarta EE application context, using the standard JNDI API may
result in a UnsupportedOperationException if the target namespace uses a
WritableServiceBasedNamingStore. To work around that, the bind()
invocation needs to be wrapped using WildFly proprietary APIs:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  InitialContext initialContext = new InitialContext();
  WritableServiceBasedNamingStore.pushOwner(serviceTarget);
  try {
    initialContext.bind("java:global/a", 100);
  } finally {
    WritableServiceBasedNamingStore.popOwner();
  }
----

[IMPORTANT]

The ServiceTarget removes the bind when uninstalled, thus using one out
of the module/extension domain usage should be avoided, unless entries
are removed using unbind().

[[naming-subsystem-configuration]]
=== Naming Subsystem Configuration

It is also possible to bind to one of the three global namespaces using
configuration in the naming subsystem. This can be done by either
editing the `standalone.xml/domain.xml` file directly, or through the
management API.

Four different types of bindings are supported:

* Simple - A primitive or java.net.URL entry (default is
`java.lang.String`).
* Object Factory - This allows to to specify the
`javax.naming.spi.ObjectFactory` that is used to create the looked up
value.
* External Context - An external context to federate, such as an LDAP
Directory Service
* Lookup - The allows to create JNDI aliases, when this entry is looked
up it will lookup the target and return the result.

An example standalone.xml might look like:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:naming:2.0" >
  <bindings>
    <simple name="java:global/a" value="100" type="int" />
    <simple name="java:global/jbossDocs" value="https://docs.jboss.org" type="java.net.URL" />
    <object-factory name="java:global/b" module="com.acme" class="org.acme.MyObjectFactory" />
    <external-context name="java:global/federation/ldap/example" class="javax.naming.directory.InitialDirContext" cache="true">
      <environment>
        <property name="java.naming.factory.initial" value="com.sun.jndi.ldap.LdapCtxFactory" />
        <property name="java.naming.provider.url" value="ldap://ldap.example.com:389" />
        <property name="java.naming.security.authentication" value="simple" />
        <property name="java.naming.security.principal" value="uid=admin,ou=system" />
        <property name="java.naming.security.credentials" value="secret" />
      </environment>
    </external-context>
    <lookup name="java:global/c" lookup="java:global/b" />
 </bindings>
</subsystem>
----

The CLI may also be used to bind an entry. As an example:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=naming/binding=java\:global\/mybinding:add(binding-type=simple, type=long, value=1000)
----

[IMPORTANT]

WildFly's Administrator Guide includes a section describing in detail
the Naming subsystem configuration.

[[retrieving-entries-from-jndi]]
== Retrieving entries from JNDI

[[resource-injection]]
=== Resource Injection

For Jakarta EE applications the recommended way to lookup a JNDI entry is
to use `@Resource` injection:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  @Resource(lookup = "java:global/mystring")
  private String myString;
 
  @Resource(name = "hello")
  private String hello;
 
  @Resource
  ManagedExecutorService executor;
----

Note that `@Resource` is more than a JNDI lookup, it also binds an entry
in the component's JNDI environment. The new bind JNDI name is defined
by `@Resource`'s `name` attribute, which value, if unspecified, is the
Java type concatenated with `/` and the field's name, for instance
`java.lang.String/myString`. More, similar to when using deployment
descriptors to bind JNDI entries. unless the name is an absolute JNDI
name, it is considered relative to `java:comp/env`. For instance, with
respect to the field named `myString` above, the `@Resource`'s `lookup`
attribute instructs WildFly to lookup the value in
`java:global/mystring`, bind it in
`java:comp/env/java.lang.String/myString`, and then inject such value
into the field.

With respect to the field named `hello`, there is no `lookup` attribute
value defined, so the responsibility to provide the entry's value is
delegated to the deployment descriptor. Considering that the deployment
descriptor was the `web.xml` previously shown, which defines an
environment entry with same `hello` name, then WildFly inject the valued
defined in the deployment descriptor into the field.

The `executor` field has no attributes specified, so the bind's name
would default to
`java:comp/env/javax.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService/executor`,
but there is no such entry in the deployment descriptor, and when that
happens it's up to WildFly to provide a default value or null, depending
on the field's Java type. In this particular case WildFly would inject
the default instance of a managed executor service, the value in
`java:comp/DefaultManagedExecutorService`, as mandated by the EE
Concurrency Utilities 1.0 Specification (JSR 236).

[[standard-java-se-jndi-api]]
=== Standard Java SE JNDI API

Jakarta EE applications may use, without any additional configuration
needed, the standard JNDI API to lookup an entry from JNDI:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  String myString = (String) new InitialContext().lookup("java:global/mystring");
----

or simply

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
  String myString = InitialContext.doLookup("java:global/mystring");
----
