docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/EE_Application_Deployment_Configuration.adoc, before:

[[EE_Application_Deployment_Configuration]]
= Java EE Application Deployment

The EE subsystem configuration allows the customisation of the
deployment behaviour for Java EE Applications.

[[global-modules]]
== Global Modules

Global modules is a set of JBoss Modules that will be added as
dependencies to the JBoss Module of every Java EE deployment. Such
dependencies allows Java EE deployments to see the classes exported by
the global modules.

Each global module is defined through the `module` resource, an example
of its XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <global-modules>
    <module name="org.jboss.logging" slot="main"/>
    <module name="org.apache.log4j" annotations="true" meta-inf="true" services="false" />
  </global-modules>
----

The only mandatory attribute is the JBoss Module `name`, the `slot`
attribute defaults to `main`, and both define the JBoss Module ID to
reference.

The optional `annotations` attribute, which defaults to `false`,
indicates if a pre-computed annotation index should be imported from
META-INF/jandex.idx

The optional `services` attribute indicates if any services exposed in
META-INF/services should be made available to the deployments class
loader, and defaults to `false`.

The optional `meta-inf` attribute, which defaults to `true`, indicates
if the Module's `META-INF` path should be available to the deployment's
class loader.

[[ear-subdeployments-isolation]]
== EAR Subdeployments Isolation

A flag indicating whether each of the subdeployments within a `.ear` can
access classes belonging to another subdeployment within the same
`.ear`. The default value is `false`, which allows the subdeployments to
see classes belonging to other subdeployments within the `.ear`.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <ear-subdeployments-isolated>true</ear-subdeployments-isolated>
----

For example:

....
myapp.ear
|
|--- web.war
|
|--- ejb1.jar
|
|--- ejb2.jar
....

If the `ear-subdeployments-isolated` is set to false, then the classes
in `web.war` can access classes belonging to `ejb1.jar` and `ejb2.jar`.
Similarly, classes from `ejb1.jar` can access classes from `ejb2.jar`
(and vice-versa).

[NOTE]

This flag has no effect on the isolated classloader of the `.war`
file(s), i.e. irrespective of whether this flag is set to `true` or
`false`, the `.war` within a `.ear` will have a isolated classloader,
and other subdeployments within that `.ear` will not be able to access
classes from that `.war`. This is as per spec.

[[property-replacement]]
== Property Replacement

The EE subsystem configuration includes flags to configure whether
system property replacement will be done on XML descriptors and Java
Annotations included in Java EE deployments.

[NOTE]

System properties etc are resolved in the security context of the
application server itself, not the deployment that contains the file.
This means that if you are running with a security manager and enable
this property, a deployment can potentially access system properties or
environment entries that the security manager would have otherwise
prevented.

[[spec-descriptor-property-replacement]]
=== Spec Descriptor Property Replacement

Flag indicating whether system property replacement will be performed on
standard Java EE XML descriptors. If not configured this defaults to
`true`, however it is set to `false` in the standard configuration files
shipped with WildFly.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <spec-descriptor-property-replacement>false</spec-descriptor-property-replacement>
----

[[jboss-descriptor-property-replacement]]
=== JBoss Descriptor Property Replacement

Flag indicating whether system property replacement will be performed on
WildFly proprietary XML descriptors, such as `jboss-app.xml`. This
defaults to `true`.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <jboss-descriptor-property-replacement>false</jboss-descriptor-property-replacement>
----

[[annotation-property-replacement]]
=== Annotation Property Replacement

Flag indicating whether system property replacement will be performed on
Java annotations. The default value is `false`.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <annotation-property-replacement>false</annotation-property-replacement>
----

Commit message:

WFLY-12511 Update community documentation for Jakarta EE 8

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/EE_Application_Deployment_Configuration.adoc, after:

[[EE_Application_Deployment_Configuration]]
= Jakarta EE Application Deployment

The EE subsystem configuration allows the customisation of the
deployment behaviour for Jakarta EE Applications.

[[global-modules]]
== Global Modules

Global modules is a set of JBoss Modules that will be added as
dependencies to the JBoss Module of every Jakarta EE deployment. Such
dependencies allows Jakarta EE deployments to see the classes exported by
the global modules.

Each global module is defined through the `module` resource, an example
of its XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <global-modules>
    <module name="org.jboss.logging" slot="main"/>
    <module name="org.apache.log4j" annotations="true" meta-inf="true" services="false" />
  </global-modules>
----

The only mandatory attribute is the JBoss Module `name`, the `slot`
attribute defaults to `main`, and both define the JBoss Module ID to
reference.

The optional `annotations` attribute, which defaults to `false`,
indicates if a pre-computed annotation index should be imported from
META-INF/jandex.idx

The optional `services` attribute indicates if any services exposed in
META-INF/services should be made available to the deployments class
loader, and defaults to `false`.

The optional `meta-inf` attribute, which defaults to `true`, indicates
if the Module's `META-INF` path should be available to the deployment's
class loader.

[[ear-subdeployments-isolation]]
== EAR Subdeployments Isolation

A flag indicating whether each of the subdeployments within a `.ear` can
access classes belonging to another subdeployment within the same
`.ear`. The default value is `false`, which allows the subdeployments to
see classes belonging to other subdeployments within the `.ear`.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <ear-subdeployments-isolated>true</ear-subdeployments-isolated>
----

For example:

....
myapp.ear
|
|--- web.war
|
|--- ejb1.jar
|
|--- ejb2.jar
....

If the `ear-subdeployments-isolated` is set to false, then the classes
in `web.war` can access classes belonging to `ejb1.jar` and `ejb2.jar`.
Similarly, classes from `ejb1.jar` can access classes from `ejb2.jar`
(and vice-versa).

[NOTE]

This flag has no effect on the isolated classloader of the `.war`
file(s), i.e. irrespective of whether this flag is set to `true` or
`false`, the `.war` within a `.ear` will have a isolated classloader,
and other subdeployments within that `.ear` will not be able to access
classes from that `.war`. This is as per spec.

[[property-replacement]]
== Property Replacement

The EE subsystem configuration includes flags to configure whether
system property replacement will be done on XML descriptors and Java
Annotations included in Jakarta EE deployments.

[NOTE]

System properties etc are resolved in the security context of the
application server itself, not the deployment that contains the file.
This means that if you are running with a security manager and enable
this property, a deployment can potentially access system properties or
environment entries that the security manager would have otherwise
prevented.

[[spec-descriptor-property-replacement]]
=== Spec Descriptor Property Replacement

Flag indicating whether system property replacement will be performed on
standard Jakarta EE XML descriptors. If not configured this defaults to
`true`, however it is set to `false` in the standard configuration files
shipped with WildFly.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <spec-descriptor-property-replacement>false</spec-descriptor-property-replacement>
----

[[jboss-descriptor-property-replacement]]
=== JBoss Descriptor Property Replacement

Flag indicating whether system property replacement will be performed on
WildFly proprietary XML descriptors, such as `jboss-app.xml`. This
defaults to `true`.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <jboss-descriptor-property-replacement>false</jboss-descriptor-property-replacement>
----

[[annotation-property-replacement]]
=== Annotation Property Replacement

Flag indicating whether system property replacement will be performed on
Java annotations. The default value is `false`.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <annotation-property-replacement>false</annotation-property-replacement>
----
