docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/EJB3.adoc, before:

[[EJB3]]
= EJB3 subsystem configuration guide

This page lists the options that are available for configuring the EJB
subsystem.

A complete example of the config is shown below, with a full explanation
of each

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:ejb3:6.0">
  <session-bean>
    <stateless>
      <bean-instance-pool-ref pool-name="slsb-strict-max-pool"/>
    </stateless>
    <stateful default-access-timeout="5000" cache-ref="simple" clustered-cache-ref="clustered"/>
    <singleton default-access-timeout="5000"/>
  </session-bean>
  <mdb>
    <resource-adapter-ref resource-adapter-name="hornetq-ra"/>
    <bean-instance-pool-ref pool-name="mdb-strict-max-pool"/>
  </mdb>
  <entity-bean>
    <bean-instance-pool-ref pool-name="entity-strict-max-pool"/>
  </entity-bean>
  <pools>
    <bean-instance-pools>
      <strict-max-pool name="slsb-strict-max-pool" max-pool-size="20" instance-acquisition-timeout="5" instance-acquisition-timeout-unit="MINUTES"/>
      <strict-max-pool name="mdb-strict-max-pool" max-pool-size="20" instance-acquisition-timeout="5" instance-acquisition-timeout-unit="MINUTES"/>
      <strict-max-pool name="entity-strict-max-pool" max-pool-size="100" instance-acquisition-timeout="5" instance-acquisition-timeout-unit="MINUTES"/>
  </bean-instance-pools>
  </pools>
  <caches>
    <cache name="simple" aliases="NoPassivationCache"/>
    <cache name="passivating" passivation-store-ref="file" aliases="SimpleStatefulCache"/>
    <cache name="clustered" passivation-store-ref="infinispan" aliases="StatefulTreeCache"/>
  </caches>
  <passivation-stores>
    <file-passivation-store name="file"/>
    <cluster-passivation-store name="infinispan" cache-container="ejb"/>
  </passivation-stores>
  <async thread-pool-name="default"/>
  <timer-service thread-pool-name="default" default-data-store="default-file-store">
    <data-stores>
      <file-data-store name="default-file-store" path="timer-service-data" relative-to="jboss.server.data.dir"/>
    </data-stores>
  </timer-service>
  <remote connector-ref="remoting-connector" thread-pool-name="default"/>
  <thread-pools>
    <thread-pool name="default">
      <max-threads count="10"/>
      <core-threads count="10"/>
      <keepalive-time time="60" unit="seconds"/>
    </thread-pool>
  </thread-pools>
  <iiop enable-by-default="false" use-qualified-name="false"/>
  <in-vm-remote-interface-invocation pass-by-value="false"/> <!-- Warning see notes below about possible issues -->
</subsystem>
----

[[session-bean]]
== <session-bean>

[[stateless]]
=== <stateless>

This element is used to configure the instance pool that is used by
default for stateless session beans. If it is not present stateless
session beans are not pooled, but are instead created on demand for
every invocation. The instance pool can be overridden on a per
deployment or per bean level using `jboss-ejb3.xml` or the
`org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Pool` annotation. The instance pools
themselves are configured in the `<pools>` element.

[[stateful]]
=== <stateful>

This element is used to configure Stateful Session Beans.

* `default-access-timeout` This attribute specifies the default time
concurrent invocations on the same bean instance will wait to acquire
the instance lock. It can be overridden via the deployment descriptor or
via the `javax.ejb.AccessTimeout` annotation.

* `cache-ref` This attribute is used to set the default cache for
non-clustered beans. It can be overridden by `jboss-ejb3.xml`, or via
the `org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Cache` annotation.

* `clustered-cache-ref` This attribute is used to set the default cache
for clustered beans.

[[singleton]]
=== <singleton>

This element is used to configure Singleton Session Beans.

* `default-access-timeout` This attribute specifies the default time
concurrent invocations will wait to acquire the instance lock. It can be
overridden via the deployment descriptor or via the
`javax.ejb.AccessTimeout` annotation.

[[mdb]]
== <mdb>

[[resource-adaptor-ref]]
=== <resource-adaptor-ref>

This element sets the default resource adaptor for Message Driven Beans.

[[bean-instance-pool-ref]]
=== <bean-instance-pool-ref>

This element is used to configure the instance pool that is used by
default for Message Driven Beans. If it is not present they are not
pooled, but are instead created on demand for every invocation. The
instance pool can be overridden on a per deployment or per bean level
using `jboss-ejb3.xml` or the `org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Pool`
annotation. The instance pools themselves are configured in the
`<pools>` element.

[[entity-bean]]
== <entity-bean>

This element is used to configure the behavior for EJB2 EntityBeans.

[[bean-instance-pool-ref-1]]
=== <bean-instance-pool-ref>

This element is used to configure the instance pool that is used by
default for Entity Beans. If it is not present they are not pooled, but
are instead created on demand for every invocation. The instance pool
can be overridden on a per deployment or per bean level using
`jboss-ejb3.xml` or the `org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Pool` annotation. The
instance pools themselves are configured in the `<pools>` element.

[[pools]]
== <pools>

[[caches]]
== <caches>

[[passivation-stores]]
== <passivation-stores>

[[async]]
== <async>

This element enables async EJB invocations. It is also used to specify
the thread pool that these invocations will use.

[[timer-service]]
== <timer-service>

This element enables the EJB timer service. It is also used to specify
the thread pool that these invocations will use.

[[data-store]]
=== <data-store>

This is used to configure the directory that persistent timer
information is saved to.

[[remote]]
== <remote>

This is used to enable remote EJB invocations. It specifies the remoting
connector to use (as defined in the remoting subsystem configuration),
and the thread pool to use for remote invocations.

[[thread-pools]]
== <thread-pools>

This is used to configure the thread pools used by async, timer and
remote invocations.

* `max-threads` specifies the maximum number of threads in the thread pool.
It is a required attribute and defaults to `10`.

* `core-threads` specifies the number of core threads in the thread pool.
It is an optional attribute and defaults to `max-threads` value.

* `keepalive-time` specifies the amount of time that non-core threads can
stay idle before they become eligible for removal. It is an optional
attribute and defaults to `60` seconds.

[[iiop]]
== <iiop>

This is used to enable IIOP (i.e. CORBA) invocation of EJB's. If this
element is present then the JacORB subsystem must also be installed. It
supports the following two attributes:

* `enable-by-default` If this is true then all EJB's with EJB2.x home
interfaces are exposed via IIOP, otherwise they must be explicitly
enabled via `jboss-ejb3.xml`.

* `use-qualified-name` If this is true then EJB's are bound to the corba
naming context with a binding name that contains the application and
modules name of the deployment (e.g. myear/myejbjar/MyBean), if this is
false the default binding name is simply the bean name.

[[in-vm-remote-interface-invocation]]
== <in-vm-remote-interface-invocation>

By default remote interface invocations use pass by value, as required
by the EJB spec. This element can use used to enable pass by reference,
which can give you a performance boost. Note WildFly will do a shallow
check to see if the caller and the EJB have access to the same class
definitions, which means if you are passing something such as a
List<MyObject>, WildFly only checks the List to see if it is the same
class definition on the call & EJB side. If the top level class
definition is the same, JBoss will make the call using pass by
reference, which means that if MyObject or any objects beneath it are
loaded from different classloaders, you would get a ClassCastException.
If the top level class definitions are loaded from different
classloaders, JBoss will use pass by value. JBoss cannot do a deep check
of all of the classes to ensure no ClassCastExceptions will occur
because doing a deep check would eliminate any performance boost you
would have received by using call by reference. It is recommended that
you configure pass by reference only on callers that you are sure will
use the same class definitions and not globally. This can be done via a
configuration in the jboss-ejb-client.xml as shown below.

To configure a caller/client use pass by reference, you configure your
top level deployment with a META-INF/jboss-ejb-client.xml containing:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss-ejb-client xmlns="urn:jboss:ejb-client:1.0">
    <client-context>
        <ejb-receivers local-receiver-pass-by-value="false"/>
    </client-context>
</jboss-ejb-client>
----

[[server-interceptors]]
== <server-interceptors>

This element configures a number of server-side interceptors which can be
configured without changing the deployments.

Each interceptor is configured in _<interceptor>_ tag which contains the
following fields:

* `module` - the module in which the interceptor is defined
* `class` - the class which implements the interceptor

In order to use server interceptors you have to create a module that implements
them and place it into _${WILDFLY_HOME}/modules_ directory.

Interceptor implementations are POJO classes which use
_javax.interceptor.AroundInvoke_ and _javax.interceptor.AroundTimeout_ to
mark interceptor methods.

Sample configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<server-interceptors>
	<interceptor module="org.foo:FooInterceptor:1.0" class="org.foo.FooInterceptor"/>
</server-interceptors>
----

Sample interceptor implementation:
[source:java,options="nowrap"]
----
package org.foo;

import javax.annotation.PostConstruct;
import javax.interceptor.AroundInvoke;
import javax.interceptor.InvocationContext;

public class FooInterceptor {

    @AroundInvoke
    public Object bar(final InvocationContext invocationContext) throws Exception {
        return invocationContext.proceed();
    }
}
----

[[client-interceptors]]
== <client-interceptors>

This element configures a number of client-side interceptors which can be
configured without changing the deployments.

Each interceptor is configured in _<interceptor>_ tag which contains the
following fields:

* `module` - the module in which the interceptor is defined
* `class` - the class which implements the interceptor

In order to use server interceptors you have to create a module that implements
them and place it into _${WILDFLY_HOME}/modules_ directory.

Interceptor implementations must implement _org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor_
interface.

Sample configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<client-interceptors>
	<interceptor module="org.foo:FooInterceptor:1.0" class="org.foo.FooInterceptor"/>
</client-interceptors>
----

Sample interceptor implementation:
[source:java,options="nowrap"]
----
package org.foo;

import org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor;
import org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInvocationContext;

public class FooInterceptor implements EJBClientInterceptor {

    @Override
    public void handleInvocation(EJBClientInvocationContext context) throws Exception {
        context.sendRequest();
    }

    @Override
    public Object handleInvocationResult(EJBClientInvocationContext context) throws Exception {
        return context.getResult();
    }
}
----

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/EJB3.adoc, after:

[[EJB3]]
= EJB3 subsystem configuration guide

This page lists the options that are available for configuring the EJB
subsystem.

A complete example of the config is shown below, with a full explanation
of each

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:ejb3:6.0">
  <session-bean>
    <stateless>
      <bean-instance-pool-ref pool-name="slsb-strict-max-pool"/>
    </stateless>
    <stateful default-access-timeout="5000" cache-ref="simple" clustered-cache-ref="clustered"/>
    <singleton default-access-timeout="5000"/>
  </session-bean>
  <mdb>
    <resource-adapter-ref resource-adapter-name="hornetq-ra"/>
    <bean-instance-pool-ref pool-name="mdb-strict-max-pool"/>
  </mdb>
  <entity-bean>
    <bean-instance-pool-ref pool-name="entity-strict-max-pool"/>
  </entity-bean>
  <pools>
    <bean-instance-pools>
      <strict-max-pool name="slsb-strict-max-pool" max-pool-size="20" instance-acquisition-timeout="5" instance-acquisition-timeout-unit="MINUTES"/>
      <strict-max-pool name="mdb-strict-max-pool" max-pool-size="20" instance-acquisition-timeout="5" instance-acquisition-timeout-unit="MINUTES"/>
      <strict-max-pool name="entity-strict-max-pool" max-pool-size="100" instance-acquisition-timeout="5" instance-acquisition-timeout-unit="MINUTES"/>
  </bean-instance-pools>
  </pools>
  <caches>
    <cache name="simple" aliases="NoPassivationCache"/>
    <cache name="passivating" passivation-store-ref="file" aliases="SimpleStatefulCache"/>
    <cache name="clustered" passivation-store-ref="infinispan" aliases="StatefulTreeCache"/>
  </caches>
  <passivation-stores>
    <file-passivation-store name="file"/>
    <cluster-passivation-store name="infinispan" cache-container="ejb"/>
  </passivation-stores>
  <async thread-pool-name="default"/>
  <timer-service thread-pool-name="default" default-data-store="default-file-store">
    <data-stores>
      <file-data-store name="default-file-store" path="timer-service-data" relative-to="jboss.server.data.dir"/>
    </data-stores>
  </timer-service>
  <remote connector-ref="remoting-connector" thread-pool-name="default"/>
  <thread-pools>
    <thread-pool name="default">
      <max-threads count="10"/>
      <core-threads count="10"/>
      <keepalive-time time="60" unit="seconds"/>
    </thread-pool>
  </thread-pools>
  <iiop enable-by-default="false" use-qualified-name="false"/>
  <in-vm-remote-interface-invocation pass-by-value="false"/> <!-- Warning see notes below about possible issues -->
</subsystem>
----

[[session-bean]]
== <session-bean>

[[stateless]]
=== <stateless>

This element is used to configure the instance pool that is used by
default for stateless session beans. If it is not present stateless
session beans are not pooled, but are instead created on demand for
every invocation. The instance pool can be overridden on a per
deployment or per bean level using `jboss-ejb3.xml` or the
`org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Pool` annotation. The instance pools
themselves are configured in the `<pools>` element.

[[stateful]]
=== <stateful>

This element is used to configure Stateful Session Beans.

* `default-access-timeout` This attribute specifies the default time
concurrent invocations on the same bean instance will wait to acquire
the instance lock. It can be overridden via the deployment descriptor or
via the `javax.ejb.AccessTimeout` annotation.

* `cache-ref` This attribute is used to set the default cache for
non-clustered beans. It can be overridden by `jboss-ejb3.xml`, or via
the `org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Cache` annotation.

* `clustered-cache-ref` This attribute is used to set the default cache
for clustered beans.

[[singleton]]
=== <singleton>

This element is used to configure Singleton Session Beans.

* `default-access-timeout` This attribute specifies the default time
concurrent invocations will wait to acquire the instance lock. It can be
overridden via the deployment descriptor or via the
`javax.ejb.AccessTimeout` annotation.

[[mdb]]
== <mdb>

[[resource-adaptor-ref]]
=== <resource-adaptor-ref>

This element sets the default resource adaptor for Message Driven Beans.

[[bean-instance-pool-ref]]
=== <bean-instance-pool-ref>

This element is used to configure the instance pool that is used by
default for Message Driven Beans. If it is not present they are not
pooled, but are instead created on demand for every invocation. The
instance pool can be overridden on a per deployment or per bean level
using `jboss-ejb3.xml` or the `org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Pool`
annotation. The instance pools themselves are configured in the
`<pools>` element.

[[entity-bean]]
== <entity-bean>

This element is used to configure the behavior for EJB2 EntityBeans.

[[bean-instance-pool-ref-1]]
=== <bean-instance-pool-ref>

This element is used to configure the instance pool that is used by
default for Entity Beans. If it is not present they are not pooled, but
are instead created on demand for every invocation. The instance pool
can be overridden on a per deployment or per bean level using
`jboss-ejb3.xml` or the `org.jboss.ejb3.annotation.Pool` annotation. The
instance pools themselves are configured in the `<pools>` element.

[[pools]]
== <pools>

[[caches]]
== <caches>

[[passivation-stores]]
== <passivation-stores>

[[async]]
== <async>

This element enables async Jakarta Enterprise Beans invocations. It is also used to specify
the thread pool that these invocations will use.

[[timer-service]]
== <timer-service>

This element enables the Jakarta Enterprise Beans timer service. It is also used to specify
the thread pool that these invocations will use.

[[data-store]]
=== <data-store>

This is used to configure the directory that persistent timer
information is saved to.

[[remote]]
== <remote>

This is used to enable remote Jakarta Enterprise Beans invocations. It specifies the remoting
connector to use (as defined in the remoting subsystem configuration),
and the thread pool to use for remote invocations.

[[thread-pools]]
== <thread-pools>

This is used to configure the thread pools used by async, timer and
remote invocations.

* `max-threads` specifies the maximum number of threads in the thread pool.
It is a required attribute and defaults to `10`.

* `core-threads` specifies the number of core threads in the thread pool.
It is an optional attribute and defaults to `max-threads` value.

* `keepalive-time` specifies the amount of time that non-core threads can
stay idle before they become eligible for removal. It is an optional
attribute and defaults to `60` seconds.

[[iiop]]
== <iiop>

This is used to enable IIOP (i.e. CORBA) invocation of EJB's. If this
element is present then the JacORB subsystem must also be installed. It
supports the following two attributes:

* `enable-by-default` If this is true then all EJB's with EJB2.x home
interfaces are exposed via IIOP, otherwise they must be explicitly
enabled via `jboss-ejb3.xml`.

* `use-qualified-name` If this is true then EJB's are bound to the corba
naming context with a binding name that contains the application and
modules name of the deployment (e.g. myear/myejbjar/MyBean), if this is
false the default binding name is simply the bean name.

[[in-vm-remote-interface-invocation]]
== <in-vm-remote-interface-invocation>

By default remote interface invocations use pass by value, as required
by the Jakarta Enterprise Beans spec. This element can use used to enable pass by reference,
which can give you a performance boost. Note WildFly will do a shallow
check to see if the caller and the Jakarta Enterprise Beans have access to the same class
definitions, which means if you are passing something such as a
List<MyObject>, WildFly only checks the List to see if it is the same
class definition on the call & Jakarta Enterprise Beans side. If the top level class
definition is the same, JBoss will make the call using pass by
reference, which means that if MyObject or any objects beneath it are
loaded from different classloaders, you would get a ClassCastException.
If the top level class definitions are loaded from different
classloaders, JBoss will use pass by value. JBoss cannot do a deep check
of all of the classes to ensure no ClassCastExceptions will occur
because doing a deep check would eliminate any performance boost you
would have received by using call by reference. It is recommended that
you configure pass by reference only on callers that you are sure will
use the same class definitions and not globally. This can be done via a
configuration in the jboss-ejb-client.xml as shown below.

To configure a caller/client use pass by reference, you configure your
top level deployment with a META-INF/jboss-ejb-client.xml containing:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss-ejb-client xmlns="urn:jboss:ejb-client:1.0">
    <client-context>
        <ejb-receivers local-receiver-pass-by-value="false"/>
    </client-context>
</jboss-ejb-client>
----

[[server-interceptors]]
== <server-interceptors>

This element configures a number of server-side interceptors which can be
configured without changing the deployments.

Each interceptor is configured in _<interceptor>_ tag which contains the
following fields:

* `module` - the module in which the interceptor is defined
* `class` - the class which implements the interceptor

In order to use server interceptors you have to create a module that implements
them and place it into _${WILDFLY_HOME}/modules_ directory.

Interceptor implementations are POJO classes which use
_javax.interceptor.AroundInvoke_ and _javax.interceptor.AroundTimeout_ to
mark interceptor methods.

Sample configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<server-interceptors>
	<interceptor module="org.foo:FooInterceptor:1.0" class="org.foo.FooInterceptor"/>
</server-interceptors>
----

Sample interceptor implementation:
[source:java,options="nowrap"]
----
package org.foo;

import javax.annotation.PostConstruct;
import javax.interceptor.AroundInvoke;
import javax.interceptor.InvocationContext;

public class FooInterceptor {

    @AroundInvoke
    public Object bar(final InvocationContext invocationContext) throws Exception {
        return invocationContext.proceed();
    }
}
----

[[client-interceptors]]
== <client-interceptors>

This element configures a number of client-side interceptors which can be
configured without changing the deployments.

Each interceptor is configured in _<interceptor>_ tag which contains the
following fields:

* `module` - the module in which the interceptor is defined
* `class` - the class which implements the interceptor

In order to use server interceptors you have to create a module that implements
them and place it into _${WILDFLY_HOME}/modules_ directory.

Interceptor implementations must implement _org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor_
interface.

Sample configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<client-interceptors>
	<interceptor module="org.foo:FooInterceptor:1.0" class="org.foo.FooInterceptor"/>
</client-interceptors>
----

Sample interceptor implementation:
[source:java,options="nowrap"]
----
package org.foo;

import org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor;
import org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInvocationContext;

public class FooInterceptor implements EJBClientInterceptor {

    @Override
    public void handleInvocation(EJBClientInvocationContext context) throws Exception {
        context.sendRequest();
    }

    @Override
    public Object handleInvocationResult(EJBClientInvocationContext context) throws Exception {
        return context.getResult();
    }
}
----
