docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/ejb3/EJB_Client_Interceptors.adoc, before:

= EJB Client Interceptors

== Implementing Client Interceptors

The EJB client supports the notion of client side interceptors. These are interceptors
that are run before an invocation is dispatched, and can modify various properties of
the request before it is sent, as well as modifying parameters and the return value.

These interceptors are represented by the class `org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor`,
and are generally registered placing interceptor class names in
`META-INF/services/org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor`.

For more details about what can be modified refer to the EJB client JavaDoc.

== Accessing invocation context data

It is possible for client interceptors to access data from the invocation context context data map used in the server
invocation (i.e. `InvocationContext.getContextData()`). To access a specific key you must call
`org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInvocationContext.addReturnedContextDataKey(String key)` with
the name of the key you are interested in. This method must be called from the `handleInvocation` method
of the interceptor.

If there is data in the context map under this specific key then it will be send back to the client
and will be available in the handleInvocationResult in the client invocations context data map.

Commit message:

' EJB ' to ' Jakarta Enterprise Beans '

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/ejb3/EJB_Client_Interceptors.adoc, after:

= Jakarta Enterprise Beans Client Interceptors

== Implementing Client Interceptors

The Jakarta Enterprise Beans client supports the notion of client side interceptors. These are interceptors
that are run before an invocation is dispatched, and can modify various properties of
the request before it is sent, as well as modifying parameters and the return value.

These interceptors are represented by the class `org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor`,
and are generally registered placing interceptor class names in
`META-INF/services/org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInterceptor`.

For more details about what can be modified refer to the Jakarta Enterprise Beans client JavaDoc.

== Accessing invocation context data

It is possible for client interceptors to access data from the invocation context context data map used in the server
invocation (i.e. `InvocationContext.getContextData()`). To access a specific key you must call
`org.jboss.ejb.client.EJBClientInvocationContext.addReturnedContextDataKey(String key)` with
the name of the key you are interested in. This method must be called from the `handleInvocation` method
of the interceptor.

If there is data in the context map under this specific key then it will be send back to the client
and will be available in the handleInvocationResult in the client invocations context data map.
